--- PAGE 1 ---
1 ---
Received 19 December 2024, accepted 29 December 2024, date of publication 17 January 2025,
date of current version 12 February 2025.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1 109/ACCESS.2025.3531324
Bi-Modal Multiperspective Percussive (BiMP)
Dataset for Visual and Audio Human Fall
Detection
JOE DIBBLE 1, (Member, IEEE), AND MICHAEL C. F. BAZZOCCHI
 1,2, (Member, IEEE)
1Astronautics and Robotics Laboratory (ASTRO Lab), Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Clarkson University, Potsdam, NY 13699, USA
2Astronautics and Robotics Laboratory (ASTRO Lab), Department of Earth and Space Science and Engineering, Y ork University, Toronto, ON M3J 1P3, Canada
Corresponding author: Michael C. F. Bazzocchi (mbazz@yorku.ca)
This work was supported by the La Fondation Dassault Systèmes.
This work involved human subjects or animals in its research. Approval of all ethical and experimental procedures and protocols was
granted by Clarkson University, Institutional Review Board (IRB), under Approval No. 24-06.
ABSTRACT Falls are the leading cause of injuries and fatalities among older individuals propagating
concerns for health and safety. Mitigating these concerns requires timely intervention and response to
minimize health complications. Autonomous fall detection systems are often offered as a means to alleviate
these concerns. Typical fall detection systems classify a fall event using either inertial- or vision-based data.
Aside from these two modes of input for fall detection, sparse human fall audio data is available. Audio
datasets associated with the dynamic impact of human falls from the perspective of a spatial environment are
both unavailable publicly and focused on niche applications. This dataset provides multimodal composition
of visual and audio data to aid in fall detection technique development. Though this dataset emphasizes audio
novelty, a synchronized visual component is included offering a multifaceted collection of data. Audio input
for fall detection systems presents an opportunity for new approaches towards autonomous fall detection.
This dataset comprises human movement representing activities of daily living and falls of 25 participants
in various residential settings, yielding 1,300 instances of unique visual and audio samples. Promising
utility of the bi-modal multiperspective percussive (BiMP) dataset is demonstrated through experimental
data evaluations using techniques including: GoogLeNet, Long Short Term Memory, Continuous Wavelet
Transforms, and Short-time Fourier Transforms for human fall detection achieving accuracies up to 96%.
The concept of audio-based fall detection has the potential to mitigate concerns regarding privacy and
invasiveness, in addition to broadening the scope of fall detection mechanisms.
INDEX TERMS Assisted living, audio analysis, fall detection, machine learning, multimodal dataset.
I. INTRODUCTION
Falls in older adults are a significant public health issue
with profound effects on independence, qu
--- PAGE 2 ---
2 ---
J. Dibble, M. C. F. Bazzocchi: BiMP Dataset for Visual and Audio Human Fall Detection
and maintaining a sustainable quality of life. The common
theme motivating development of FDP schemes revolves
around an effort to minimize the severe outcomes and
adverse effects stemming from falls impacting the older adult
demographic [7].
From a high-level perspective, most FDP systems share
a general mode of operation, involving input data from
real-time monitoring and processing the data through a
classifier. V ariations of FDP schemes differ in aspects such
as architecture, implementation, mode of execution, and data
format being generalized into two categories on the basis
visual or sensor data [8]. The two categories encompass a
broad variety of visual and sensor data arranged in diverse
formats, and have been instrumental towards establishing
FDP mechanisms.
Aside from visual- and sensor-based approaches towards
FDP systems development, with exceptions such as [9]
and [10], the potential for audio fall detection has been largely
overlooked. Both existing audio-based FDPs and the utilities
necessary for their development are scarce. Notwithstanding
the resource of already existent and not publicly available
datasets, i.e., [9] and [10], audio data from falls is not
commonly recognized for or preserved as a viable means of
input for fall detection mechanisms. Characterisation of falls
in terms of audio information has the potential to invoke more
avenues of autonomous fall detection.
Audio fall detection, as presented in scenarios such as [9],
provide visual-audio recordings inclusive of verbal responses
of older adults during falls. Similarly, [10] perpetuates falling
audio for: verbal response, body collision, and background
noise using wearable cameras for data collection. These
efforts provide a benchmark for application of audio fall
detection, establishing nuance within the FDP context.
Furthering audio fall detection, this work aims to provide fall
audio independent of verbal utterance from an environmental
perspective. The focus is to capture the dynamic impact audio
of a fall from a listening device in proximity of a person,
as opposed to being attached. Although verbal interference
from a fallen person merits consideration, so too do fall
instances when no verbal response is able to be provided by
a fallen individual.
In this paper, a multimodal and multiperspective human
fall dataset with synchronized audio and visual formats from a
spatial environmental perspective is developed and evaluated
using deep learning and data processing techniques. This
dataset places emphasis on the collection and inclusion of
dynamic impact fall audio. Further, this dataset aims to
address the lack of publicly available audio fall impact
data independent of verbal input from an environmental
perspective, capturing the audio essence of a human fall
as accurately as possible. Recognizing the utility of video
data in the context of autonomous fall detection, t
--- PAGE 3 ---
3 ---
J. Dibble, M. C. F. Bazzocchi: BiMP Dataset for Visual and Audio Human Fall Detection
some rendition of a skeleton re-composition of extracted
joint position information. Image manipulation or key point
location are commonly implemented though are not criteria
for visual methods. Additionally these modes of analysis can
be used in parallel or in tandem with each other.
Image manipulation can be seen in the method presented
in [12] to detect falls using human body shape. Exemplifying
the usage of background removal, this technique extracted
background information from each video frame and used
the leftover foreground information in the determination of a
fall. Similarly, background segmentation in [13] was accom-
plished through converting red-green-blue (RGB) inputs to
binary images using a mask region-based convolutional
neural network (R-CNN). This study used both a publicly
available dataset University of Rzeszów (UR) fall detection
dataset [14] in conjunction with a self-collected dataset.
Fall detection was achieved using secondary convolutional
neural network (CNN) feature extractions as inputs of
an attention guided bi-directional long short-term memory
(LSTM) classifier. Using a specified human posture model
derived from joint configurations, [15] extrapolated kinetic
information of a person in an RGB video as input to a logistic
regression classifier for fall determination. Additionally,
[15] constructed a custom dataset in combination with the
FallVideo dataset from [16]. Further examples of visual fall
detection were presented in [17] using image manipulation
and key joint locations.
Despite the application of work done previously, limi-
tations include classification bias due to low variation of
data, and requirements for continuous visual monitoring.
Nonetheless, available work involving visual inputs for fall
detection demonstrate the utility and application of visual fall
datasets. Additional to the datasets used to develop existing
visual fall detection techniques, a higher volume of visual
fall data, from alternative viewpoints offers a more diverse
sample set on which to train fall detection mechanisms. Fall
data from multiple perspectives effectively facilitates a wider
range of view angles from which a fall can be detected.
B. SENSOR-BASED FDP SYSTEMS
Sensor-based fall detection involves a vast selection of
sensors. Some sensors are intended to be worn, and others
are intended to be integrated into an environment, such as
floors. These include, but are not limited to, sensors such
as: pressure plates, accelerometers, gyroscopes, manometers,
and inertial measurement units. Sensor-based fall detection
can be accomplished using a single type of sensor, or a
combination of multiple sensors in a multi-input mode of
detection.
For instance, [18] utilized data from a smartphone
accelerometer in combination with a threshold-based method
to detect different types of events, e.g., a fall-like event,
such as lying on the floor, or 
--- PAGE 4 ---
4 ---
J. Dibble, M. C. F. Bazzocchi: BiMP Dataset for Visual and Audio Human Fall Detection
TABLE 1. Related datasets and their specifications.
collection of human falls recorded from various perspectives.
Additionally, the audio component is meant to provide a
multi-perspective collection of exclusively percussive audio
fall data, not inclusive of verbal noise.
D. HUMAN FALL DATASETS
Human fall datasets (HFDs) are a significant contribution
to the development of learning-based fall detection meth-
ods [29]. Fall datasets typically consist of orchestrated falls,
which safely produce data that imitates characteristics of an
actual fall. Typical constituents of HFDs include fall events
(FEs), which exemplify fall characteristics, and activities
of daily living (ADLs), which provide characteristics of
regularly anticipated movement.
Established HFDs are listed in Table 1. There are
commonalities shared between each of the listed datasets,
although they present human fall data in different capacities.
Each dataset interprets fall dynamics from distinct reference
frames, capturing and quantifying signals produced by the
motion. The presented datasets capture unique signals using
various methodologies, and sensing equipment.
Datasets such as in CIRDO Corpus [9] and MUVIM [26]
employ methodologies depicting ADLs and FEs for scenario-
based recording. In contrast, isolated instance-based record-
ing of FEs and ADLs separately is typical of the other datasets
presented.
In [21], the SisFall dataset is presented, which is comprised
of acceleration and rotation data using two accelerometers
and a gyroscope from thirty-eight participants. The sensors
were placed at the waist of each participant. Additional
preliminary analyses were included to test the dataset,
using fourteen extracted features and two threshold-based
classifiers. Activities were performed in classrooms using a
landing mat to ensure participant safety.
Similarly, [22] presents a motion signal dataset, referred
to as FallAllD, as a result of an accelerometer, gyroscope,
magnetometer, and barometer readings placed at waist, wrist,
and neck positions, for numerous movements performed
by fifteen participants. Acceleration-based fall classification
was conducted using deep learning and machine learning
techniques for the FallAllD dataset. Participants performed
movements using protective gear including a helmet, arm
protection, knee pads, and a back protector, eliminating the
need for a dampening fall pad to minimize data interference.
The MobiFall dataset in [23], presents smartphone
accelerometer and gyroscope data collection for twenty-four
participants. The dataset was recorded using smartphones
providing data for two primary approaches to fall detection:
threshold-based and machine learning methods. The smart-
phone was placed naturally in a pocket of the participant
during recording of movements. Additionally, a landing mat
was used to protect participants while performing FEs.
The TST Fall
--- PAGE 5 ---
5 ---
J. Dibble, M. C. F. Bazzocchi: BiMP Dataset for Visual and Audio Human Fall Detection
The visual URFD dataset, in [14], presented RGB and
depth data in combination with inertial data. Accelerometer,
gyroscope, and single camera visual and depth data were
collected for five participants undergoing threshold-based
sensor classification, SVM, and KNN visual classification.
This system effectively integrates both motion and visual
data purposed towards a higher capacity to distinguish falls
from daily activities. This study implemented a singular
depth camera, and an IMU worn on a user’s pelvic region.
Five participants performed eight different activities, using a
carpet to prevent injury during the falling movements.
The CIRDO Corpus dataset, in [9], recorded audio data
using two microphones and visual data with three cameras,
for seventeen participants. Cameras were placed on one
side of the room facing the incident straight on, and the
other at a forty-five degree angle and audio was captured
using two microphones. One microphone was suspended
from the ceiling, while the other was positioned on a
nearby piece of furniture. The audio data included various
forms of participant vocalization. Audio classification was
achieved using an Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR)
system, and visual data was classified using a histogram-
based approach. Recorded activities captured ADLs and
FEs in a shared scenario. A smart room environment was
used, as it resembled a typical living space, and falls were
performed on a carpet.
The visual and audio EGOFALLS dataset, presented
in [10], used RGB and IR cameras to record fourteen
participants. Visual classification was conducted using four
learning models combined with features extracted from the
audio using Mel-Frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCC).
Cameras were placed egocentrically to collect RGB, infrared,
and audio data. Classification schemes used late decision
fusion, integrating descriptors from visual and auditory
data. The audio data included ambient and verbal sounds
surrounding the event. The egocentric camera positions were
on the neck and waist of fourteen participants.
The BiMP dataset is uniquely intended to present multi-
modal (visal and audio) representations of FEs and ADLs
from a diverse set of viewing angles and perspectives. Addi-
tionally, the audio data provided in the BiMP dataset captures
the fall impact noise independent of vocal interjection.
The ADLs and FEs used in the BiMP dataset were
selected with reference to those used in previous datasets.
Additionally, the modalities of the BiMP dataset are evaluated
independent of one another to establish the fall characteristics
inherent in each modality. The following methodology pro-
vides a comprehensive explanation of constituent attributes
of the BiMP dataset.
III. METHODOLOGY
Effective learning-based fall detection relies on a dataset that
accurately aligns with the intended application, is diverse
in composition, and provides suf
--- PAGE 6 ---
6 ---
J. Dibble, M. C. F. Bazzocchi: BiMP Dataset for Visual and Audio Human Fall Detection
This information offers an opportunity for increased
accuracy in the reproduction of a fall. Delayed reaction time
in the event of a fall was thereby incorporated into the
data collection as part of the instruction for imitating falls
of older adults. When falling, participants were asked to
react naturally in their reflexes, though to delay the action.
These considerations were instituted for the activities each
participant performed.
B. ACTIVITIES OF THE STUDY
The human fall datasets listed in Table 1 collectively present
an extensive range of daily living and fall movements.
Nonetheless, many of the movements included in those
datasets share underlying characteristics which can be
grouped into fundamental movements shared across the
datasets presented in Table 1.
Due to the subtle noise production of regular ADLs
in comparison with the FEs, the incorporation of the
miscellaneous ADLs offer various common household noises
that differ from that of a fall in order to diversify the audible
component of this dataset. These miscellaneous ADLs take
the form of dropping an object or using an appliance
typical of the given environment (e.g., pulling out a chair,
opening/closing an appliance door, moving a laundry basket).
As mentioned previously, each of the miscellaneous ADLs
are listed in Table 3 and are environment specific.
TABLE 2. ADLs and FEs included in this dataset.
TABLE 3. Miscellaneous ADLs unique to each room.
An explanation on how to perform movements listed in
Table 2 was given to each participant prior to recording.
The recording of a movement would then begin once the
participant assumed the initial standing or sitting position
that would be proceeded by the movement (i.e., a participant
would initially be in a seated position for ADL5 and FE5).
Once recording began, each participant would silently count
to ten and then perform the movement. Once the participant
had completed the movement, the recording would stop three
seconds after all motion stopped. The environments where
the activities were performed are further explained in the
following subsection.
C. ENVIRONMENT
The previous section addressed procedural variables asso-
ciated with bodily motion, while this section addresses the
environmental considerations.
Background information can significantly influence learn-
ing networks as it can affect attributes such as training bias,
context, and feature extraction. Both [35] and [36] present
examples of how image background impacts the ability of
the learning network. Although these works are not directly
concerned with the development of human fall datasets, they
communicate the influence background information can have
on learning networks. The significance of image background
in the context of learning, demonstrates the importance of
data collection in an environment that conveys the visual
ambience of the intended application.
Visual backg
--- PAGE 7 ---
7 ---
J. Dibble, M. C. F. Bazzocchi: BiMP Dataset for Visual and Audio Human Fall Detection
FIGURE 1. Views of each rooms: (a) living space, (b) bedroom, (c) kitchen/dining room, (d) laundry room, (e) secondary bedroom room.
TABLE 4. Participant characteristics overview.
This laboratory is structured as an imitation home purposed
towards facilitating realistic home care. The appearance of
the laboratory offered facilities that aligned well with the
environmental requirements of this dataset. The inclusion
of these rooms offered diverse backgrounds similar to
what is expected in a residential setting. In addition to
the environmental constituents of the dataset, participant
attributes are provided in the following section.
D. PARTICIPANT DEMOGRAPHICS
All participants involved in this study were voluntary with
the option to opt out of participation at any given point
of completion. Exclusion criteria for participation consisted
of individuals younger than eighteen years of age, and any
participants allergic to the materials of the safety equipment.
A total of twenty-five volunteers participated in performing
FEs and ADLs for this study. Participant characteristics such
as: age, weight, and height, are summarized in Table 4 in
TABLE 5. Particant demographic overview.
terms of the statistical distribution. Furthermore, Table 5,
presents the dataset composition in terms of participant
gender, ethnicity, and dominant hand. Participants were not
required to disclose their gender identity on the preliminary
questionnaire and did so of their own volition.
Among the statistical quantities included in Table 4 is
the Simpson’s Diversity Index (SDI) for each characteristic
calculated using the definition provided in [38]. The SDI
computes the likelihood of two random samples belonging
to the same category. The SDI values range from zero (no
diversity) to one (infinite diversity). As can be seen in Table4,
the physical participant characteristics have relatively high
diversity. The SDI was not computed for the demographics
26788 VOLUME 13, 2025

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 ---
J. Dibble, M. C. F. Bazzocchi: BiMP Dataset for Visual and Audio Human Fall Detection
in Table 5, since by definition the diversity values would be
low due to the limited discrete number of groupings (e.g., two
groupings for dominant hand). If desired, these values can
also be computed directly given the values in Table 5. Further
discussion on the limitations of the participant demographic
diversity can be found in Section VI-B.
The exclusion criteria of age and allergy considerations
did not affect any volunteers that signed up to participate in
the study resulting in the involvement of all volunteers. The
voluntary participation and study location, therefore, were
the only influences on the demographic and characteristics
of study participants.
Each participant performed ADLs and FEs in a specific
room. Four laboratory rooms (a)-(d) were used to record
six participants each. None of the participants appear in
multiple rooms, meaning no two scenarios feature the
same participant. A single participant was recorded in the
remaining room, i.e., room (e). Following are specifications
of the equipment used while recording the data.
E. EQUIPMENT
Data was collected with a Reolink RLK8-800B4 sys-
tem [39], comprised of four 3840p×2160p, 20 frames per
second cameras, combined with a two terabyte network
video recorder. Cameras were placed as evenly around the
room as possible, each of which viewed the same central
location.
The positioning of the cameras in this fashion offered
multiple viewing angles of the same incident, while also
recording audio data from diverse spatial regions. In each
room, cameras were placed as evenly as possible around
the incident to avoid data similarity. The vertical place-
ment of each camera in this study ranged from 90 cm
to 180 cm. While not specifically designed for mobile
humanoid robots, this range of heights is well-suited for the
training and testing of FDP techniques in mobile robotic
systems [40].
The equipment used for safety included a vest for torso
padding, a helmet, knee and elbow pads, and gloves. Safety
equipment used for the fall events was worn as shown in
Fig. 2. The knee and elbow pads were equipped with adhesive
cloth to imitate clothing. The pads were covered in cloth
in order to provide audio mimicking the impact sound of a
clothed joint opposed to that of a safety pad.
Each participant wore this safety equipment while per-
forming all FEs. Similar to the unwanted interference landing
mats play in accelerometer data collection [22], audio data
collection is subject to the same influence. To avoid any
potential interference from the landing mat on the integrity
of data collection, this study opted to use wearable safety
equipment.
Comprehensive inclusion of the the spatial, movement,
and participant attributes provide context for the recorded
data, which was then processed and reposited for further
analysis.
FIGURE 2. Safety equipment used: 1) helmet, 2) vest, 3) elbow pads,
4) gloves, and 5) k
--- PAGE 9 ---
9 ---
J. Dibble, M. C. F. Bazzocchi: BiMP Dataset for Visual and Audio Human Fall Detection
FIGURE 3. Organization of the stored data and hierarchy of the folders.
Personally identifiable information was removed from the
dataset, which can be made freely available in compliance
with the limits of the IRB approval.
V. ANALYSIS
This analysis serves to evaluate both the visual and audio
dataset components for fall detection. Both audio and visual
constituents were independently evaluated using unique and
distinguishable class features. Thus, classification techniques
were employed for audio and visual data independently in
order to quantify the recognizable fall characteristics inherent
in each modality. The dataset was used to train and test
classifiers for both data modalities, purposed towards binary
classification of FEs as falls and ADLs as nonfalls.
This work prioritized the classification of falls over
specific movement classifications, thereby removing the
necessity of a non-binary classification scheme. More
specific movement classification beyond fall or nonfall is
beyond the scope of this research, but is achievable using this
dataset.
TABLE 6. Classifier input and data preparation.
A. EVALUATION
Classification of the dataset was conducted using multiple
methods in order to establish its viability for different
analyses. Each method of classification was supported by
two sets of validation metrics and involved training neural
networks. In the context of this work, neural networks
constitute a classifier and are able to identify patterns and
similarities in data. Each classifier was initially trained and
tested using a 70-30 data split using data from rooms (a)-(d).
The remaining data from room (e) was then used as secondary
test data for the trained model. The training set included of
889 sequences and 381 complementary test sequences. The
secondary test set from room (e) included 56 files.
Beyond the data partition, both visual and audio portions of
the dataset have each undergone two unique classifications.
Each classifier for both modes of data input and the associated
specifications are listed in Table 6. Each of the classifiers
were trained on the dataset, and validated on it twice.
The model used for each analysis of both the audio and
visual data is a GoogLeNet architecture [41] consisting of
144 layers that contribute to 11 major modules. The common
model between the analyses is presented in Fig. 4, depicting
a GoogLeNet architecture.
Using the GoogLeNet, an input image undergoes multiple
layers of convolution and max pooling prior to the inception
modules presented in Fig. 4. In total, the model uses nine
inception modules comprised of convolutional, pooling, and
depth concatenation layers. The light blue represents convo-
lutional layers, green represents max pooling layers, orange
represents depth concatenation layers, purple represents a
FIGURE 4. High level GoogLeNet architecture diagram. Colors associated
with layer type: li
--- PAGE 10 ---
10 ---
J. Dibble, M. C. F. Bazzocchi: BiMP Dataset for Visual and Audio Human Fall Detection
FIGURE 5. GoogLeNet inception module layer breakdown, with the same
color scheme used as in Fig. 4.
dropout layer, and dark blue represents a fully connected
layer.
GoogLeNet was used for its versatility in capturing spatial
features of different sizes. The ability of the GoogLeNet
to capture both local and global spatial dependencies,
offers high adaptability for the varying input formats and
data. The applicability of a GoogLeNet architecture thus
accommodates the data preparation techniques described in
Table 6. The diagram shows the structure of the inception
modules, and the number on the right of each module
indicates how many of them are concatenated between max
pooling layers. The nine inception modules make up three
inception sequences, denoted by the number to the right of
the inception modules in Fig. 4.
The architecture of the inception modules leverages dif-
ferent convolutions in parallel, capturing features of various
dimensions. The layers and architecture for the inception
modules are shown in Fig. 5.
Each inception module provides multi-level feature extrac-
tion, where medium-sized spatial features are captured by
the (3 × 3) convolutions and larger spatial features are
captured by the (5 × 5) convolutions. These inception
modules are sequentially connected in between max pooling
layers, creating inception sequences (IS) for further feature
extraction.
The inception sequence of tandem inception modules,
as shown in Fig. 4, are labeled according to the number
appearing next to the module. The sequences are structured
as follows:
• IS 1: 2 sequential inception modules
• IS 2: 5 sequential inception modules
• IS 3: 2 sequential inception modules
Each inception sequence captures information at different
levels as a result of combined outputs of elements from the
processing layers of the module. The first inception sequence
extracts basic low-level features. The initial sequence focuses
on finer details in the feature extraction, such as edges
colors and textures. The second inception sequence is
responsible for intermediate features, capturing more context
than the preceding sequence, such as shapes or objects. The
subsequent and final inception sequence captures the highest-
level, most abstract features, representing patterns or objects
of higher complexity.
The GoogLeNet architecture is a common thread in all
visual and audio data evaluations presented in this study. The
TABLE 7. Classifier hyperparameters.
same structure was used for all evaluations, with the addition
of a long short-term memory (LSTM) network for a portion of
the visual data evaluation. To preserve temporal information,
an LSTM is appended after the GoogLeNet CNN. The
addition of the LSTM incorporates features extracted from
individual frames as part of an evaluation across the entire
sequence. This evaluation scenario modifies the structure of
the model described in F
--- PAGE 11 ---
11 ---
J. Dibble, M. C. F. Bazzocchi: BiMP Dataset for Visual and Audio Human Fall Detection
The addition of the LSTM involves temporal aspects of
the data in classification. Converting a video for this model
involved frame extraction, resizing, and sequential storage.
Similar to the merged array, this array was structured with
the same pixel size (224 pixels×224 pixels) for both height
and width, where each pixel in a frame maintained the same
RGB values.
The GoogLeNet diagram in Fig. 4 depicts the model used
for feature extraction for both analyses, along with classifi-
cation of merged images. The GoogLeNet-LSTM modifies
the network presented by redirecting the GoogLeNet global
pooling output into a sequential feature array, passing it to
an additional sequence input layer. The input layer takes
each sequence element as a feature vector. The sequences are
processed twofold by a bi-directional LSTM layer, followed
by regularization and the conversion of LSTM outputs
to probability space outputs for classification. The LSTM
introduced additional complexities with the inclusion of
temporal features, thus increasing the volume of learnables.
The additional complexities were mitigated by implementing
a learning rate drop for more precise weight adjustments over
time.
C. AUDIO COMPONENT CLASSIFIERS
The classification of the audio portion of this dataset used
the same GoogLeNet architecture displayed in Fig. 4. The
GoogLeNet architecture accepts images for classification,
thus, audio data was formatted as pictorial inputs. Raw audio
signals were extracted from each video and were processed
without filtering. The exploration of filtering processes
extends beyond the focus of this work and provides a basis for
future analyses that may prove to be advantageous regarding
data clarity or classification performance. The experiments
were conducted in closed environments focused on the
noise generated by the activity. It was expected that sounds
generated by the participants performing the activities would
contribute to the background noise. However, separation of
mixed audio signals produced by concurrent sources is not
a trivial task [42], and deviated beyond the scope of this
work. Depending on the intended application, the addition
or removal of background noise from the dataset may be
necessary to improve fall detection outcomes. The noise
present in the current dataset can be considered reflective of a
quiet home environment. Similarly, filtering techniques may
be considered in future work as none have been included as
part of the analyses in this work.
Audio signals were converted into images through the
application of wavelet and spectrogram transforms, capturing
the temporal data within a single image. The transforms
return the frequency and amplitude constituents of an audio
signal over time. Frequency quantifies the amount of repeated
vibrations captured in a signal over a given period of time.
The amplitude of a signal, is the magnitude of the vi
