
--- PAGE 1 ---
Measurement: Sensors 24 (2022) 100422
Available online 7 September 2022
2665-9174/© 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Deep Learning driven automated person detection and tracking model on 
surveillance videos 
S. Sivachandiran a,*, K. Jagan Mohan b, G. Mohammed Nazer c 
a Department of Computer Science & Engineering, Annamalai University, Tamil Nadu, India 
b Department of Information Technology, Annamalai University, Tamil Nadu, India 
c Department of Computer Science, RAAK College of Arts and Science, Puducherry, India   
ARTICLE INFO  
Keywords: 
Object detection 
Object tracking 
Surveillance videos 
Deep learning 
Hyperparameter optimizer 
ABSTRACT  
Recently, person detection and tracking in a video scene of a surveillance system were grabbing higher interest 
because of its extensive range of applications in gender classification, abnormal event recognition, person 
identification, human gait characterization, individual counting in a dense crowd, and fall detection for older 
people, etc. Several methodologies were implied for person detection for surveillance applications. This paper 
presents a new DL driven automated person detection and tracking (DLD-APDT) model on surveillance videos. 
The major goal of the proposed DLD-APDT model is to identify people and track them in the videos. To 
accomplish this, the proposed DLD-APDT model initially performs frame conversion process where the input 
video is converted into a set of frames. In addition, the proposed DLD-APDT model employs EfficientDet model as 
object detector, i.e., persons and track them. EfficientDet is a recently developed object detector that makes use 
of different optimization and backbone tweaks, like bi-directional feature pyramid network (BiFPN) and a 
compound scaling approach. Moreover, root means square propagation (RMSProp) optimizer is applied to 
optimally choose the hyperparameters related to the EfficientNet model which helps in accomplishing enhanced 
performance. The experimental validation of the DLD-APDT model takes place using two training datasets 
namely PascalVOC and PenFudan datasets. The simulation results reported the enhanced detection and tracking 
performance of the DLD-APDT technique over recent approaches.   
1. Introduction 
Person recognition is regarded as an appropriate subset of the 
generic image related detection task with several probable application 
zones like human-robot interaction, security, or surveillance, currently 
the social security in an epidemic context. Person recognition is a 
difficult task which was broadly discovered for side-mounted, recti-
linear-lens cameras [1,2]. Implementation of such systems to overhead 
fisheye (OF) cameras is not unimportant because of the severe geometric 
distortions and radial geometry in the captured images. In spite of 
important development in the past 2 years [3], fisheye person recogni-
tion turns out to be a difficult and comparatively unrevealed issue, 
mainly owing to the restricted diversity of datasets for evaluating and 
training purposes [4]. Object detection and tracking have acquired ris-
ing interest owing to their extensive array of applications and current 
breakthrough research. In the applications of academia and real-world 
object detection and tracking contains equal significance. Certain 
real-world applications involve transportation surveillance, autono-
mous driving, robotic vision, and monitoring security [5]. 
The boom of Artificial Intelligence (AI) has entered every walk of life 
in community, and research on AI and Deep Learning (DL) has done 
breakthroughs [6]. In DL structure, the issue of object detection is 
observed as a mission of labeling distinct objects in an image frame with 
their right classes and forecasting its bounding boxes with a high pos-
sibility. The learning outcome in DL is reliable on the quantity of spec-
imens (or earlier experiences). If the number is larger, then the outcome 
is very precise [7]. Nowadays, plentiful data that form DL is a useful 
choice. But DL frequently requires thousands or hundreds of images for 
acquiring the superior outcomes, dissimilar to the classical (shallow) 
learning. The research which is ongoing on multi-camera person 
detection includes hand-crafted features, however to the best of our 
knowledge real-world industrial applications utilize monocular CNN 
* Corresponding author. 
E-mail addresses: sivachandiran.s@gmail.com (S. Sivachandiran), aucsejagan@gmail.com (K. Jagan Mohan), kgmohammednazer@gmail.com (G. Mohammed 
Nazer).  
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Measurement: Sensors 
journal homepage: www.sciencedirect.com/journal/measurement-sensors 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.measen.2022.100422 
Received 13 July 2022; Received in revised form 8 August 2022; Accepted 17 August 2022   
--- PAGE 2 ---
Measurement: Sensors 24 (2022) 100422
2
pedestrian detectors, and the final valuation can be performed by 
averaging the separate per view ones [8,9]. 
Al Atrash [10] established 2 methods to detect and count people’s 
faces. These techniques were dependent upon Faster-RCNN and SSD that 
are approaches utilized to object recognition. It can utilize these tech-
niques for Face detection and calculating these faces. These approaches 
were DNNs that are trained on object recognition tasks. During this case, 
it can be trained Faster-RCNN and SSD techniques on Wider-Face dataset 
that is collected of faces from a variety of criteria compared to expres-
sion, pose, occlusion, illumination, and scale. In Ref. [11], the authors 
projected a Kalman filter (KF) based on CNN to online pedestrian 
recognition from the video. Primary, the single shot multi-box detector 
was executed as CNN detector that integrates the pedestrian aspect ra-
tios. The fusion elements were executed for improving the detector 
robustness to medium and far scale pedestrians. Next, the bounding box 
propagates based on the forecast in KF. At last, the place and confidence 
of bounding boxes were refined by KF. 
Wang and Lan [12] presented a new infrared pedestrian recognition 
network from a per-pixel forecast manner. The presented network has 3 
parts containing neck, head, and backbone: i) The backbone increases 
the receptive domain of networks and resolves the network degradation 
issue produced by network deepening; ii) The neck enhances feature 
illustration by fusing multiscale feature data; iii) With planning several 
cascaded heads, pixel-by-pixel forecast of multiscale pedestrian was 
attained. The authors in Ref. [13] developed a novel hybrid 2D and 3D 
convolutional related RNN (HCRN) to video-related person re-id task. 
Especially, the 3D convolution element explores the local short-term fast 
varying motion data, but the recurrent layer leverages the global 
long-term spatial-temporal data. According to HCRN, it can be planned a 
scale-fusion structure for making entire utilize of features of the distinct 
scales to enhance the efficiency of video based person re-id. In Ref. [14], 
the authors attempt for improving classifier procedure with several 
approaches. A particularly adapted CNN framework has been utilized 
together with LSTM and time distribution from experimental. The con-
volutional neural layer for 2D data from the structure is utilized. 
This paper presents a new DL driven automated person detection and 
tracking (DLD-APDT) model on surveillance videos. The proposed DLD- 
APDT model initially performs frame conversion process where the 
input video is converted into a set of frames. In addition, the proposed 
DLD-APDT model employs EfficientDet model as object detector, i.e. 
persons and track them. EfficientDet is a recently developed object de-
tector that makes use of different optimization and backbone tweaks, 
like bi-directional feature pyramid network (BiFPN) and a compound 
scaling approach. Moreover, root means square propagation (RMSProp) 
optimizer is applied to optimally choose the hyperparameters. The 
experimental validation of the DLD-APDT model takes place using two 
training datasets namely PascalVOC and PenFudan datasets. 
2. The proposed model 
In this paper, a new DLD-APDT model was enhanced for effectual 
person detection and tracking on surveillance videos. The proposed 
DLD-APDT model initially performs frame conversion process where the 
input video is converted into a set of frames. Followed by, the proposed 
DLD-APDT model utilized EfficientDet model to detect persons and track 
them. Finally, the RMSProp optimizer is applied to optimally choose the 
hyperparameters. Fig. 1 demonstrates the overall process of DLD-APDT 
algorithm. 
2.1. Object detection and tracking: EfficientDet model 
In this study, the presented DLD-APDT model utilized EfficientDet 
model to detect persons and track them. A new family of detection 
paradigms called EfficientDet is established based on the BiFPN. The 
complete structure of EfficientDet mainly follows the one-stage detector 
models [15]. Then, we use ImageNet-pre-trained EfficientNet as the 
backbone network (BBN). The presented model acts as a featured 
network that takes leve1 3–7 features {P3, P4, P5, P6, P7} from the BBN 
and repetitively employs the combination of top-down and bottom-up 
Fig. 1. Overall process of DLD-APDT algorithm.  
Fig. 2. EfficientDet architecture.  
S. Sivachandiran et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
--- PAGE 3 ---
Measurement: Sensors 24 (2022) 100422
3
bi-directional features. 
Aiming at enhancing efficiency and accuracy, we want to improve a 
family of model which could meet a wider range of restraints. Here, a 
crucial problem is scaling up a benchmark EfficientDet mechanism. 
Fig. 2 depicts the framework of EfficientDet approach. Earlier studies 
mainly scale up a benchmark detector by using larger BBNs (for 
example, AmoebaNet or ResNeXt), stacking more FPN layers, or using 
larger input images. Usually, this method is ineffectual because it em-
phasizes only a limited or single scaling dimension. The current study 
exhibits outstanding performance in image categorization by equally 
scaling up each dimension of network input, width, and depth resolu-
tion. Based on the study, we present a new compound scaling technique 
for detecting objects that make use of a φ compound coefficient to 
equally scale up each dimension of resolution, backbone, BiFPN, and 
Fig. 3. Precision-recall review of DLD-APDT algorithm in PascalVOC dataset.  
Fig. 4. ROC analysis of DLD-APDT technique under PascalVOC dataset.  
S. Sivachandiran et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
--- PAGE 4 ---
Measurement: Sensors 24 (2022) 100422
4
class/box network. In contrast, object detector has considerably larger 
scaling dimension when compared to image classification model, hence 
grid search for each dimension is cost-consuming. Thus, we employ a 
heuristic-based scaling model, however following the major concept of 
equally scaling up each dimension. 
BBN — we reutilize the same depth or width scaling coefficient of 
EfficientNet-B0 to B6 so we simply reutilize the ImageNet-pretrained 
checkpoint. 
BiFPN network — we rise BiFPN depth Dbifpn (#layers) linearly 
because depth should be rounded to smaller integers. For BiFPN width 
Wbifpn (#channel), rapidly raise BiFPN width Wbifpn (#channel). Select 
the optimal value 1.35 as the BiFPN width scaling factor. In the 
following, BiFPN width and depth were scaled by using the below 
expression: 
Wbifpn= 64⋅(1.35φ), Dbifpn = 3+ φ (1) 
Box/class predictive networks— it can be fixing the width to be often 
similar to the BiFPN (viz., Wpred = Wbifpn), however, increase the depth 
(#layers) linearly using the subsequent formula: 
Dbox= Dclass = 3+ ⌊φ/3⌋ (2) 
Input image resolution- features level3-7 are utilized in BiFPN, the 
input resolution should be divisible by 27 = 128, hence we rise resolu-
tion linearly by the following expression: 
Rinput= 512+ φ⋅128 (3) 
Following Eqs. (1)–(3) with diverse φ, it is designed EfficientDet-D0 
(φ= 0) to D7 (φ= 7), where D7 and D7x have a similar head and BiFPN, 
but D7 employs high resolution and D7x employs large BBN and addi-
tional feature levels (from P3 to P8). Especially, the compound scaling is 
heuristic-based and mightn’t be optimum, but shows that the scaling 
model could considerably enhance efficacy when compared to other 
single-dimension scaling models. 
2.2. Hyperparameter tuning: RMSProp optimizer 
In this work, the RMSProp optimizer is applied to optimally choose 
the hyperparameters related to the EfficientNet model which helps in 
accomplishing enhanced performance. The RMSprop optimizer is 
similar to the gradient descent (GD) technique with momentum [16]. 
The RMSprop optimizing restricts the oscillation from the upright way. 
Thus, it improves our rate of learning and this technique is take sub-
stantial steps from the horizontal way and converges rapidly. The 
variance amongst RMSprop and GD is on how the gradient is computed. 
Table 1 
Overall analysis of DLD-APDT approach with various 
measures under PascalVOC dataset.  
Measures Values 
Precision 92.95 
Recall 61.86 
FPPI 0.047 
FPPW 0.071 
Average Precision 69.94  
Fig. 5. Overall analysis of DLD-APDT approach under PascalVOC dataset.  
Fig. 6. Precision-recall interpretation of DLD-APDT algorithm under PenFudan dataset.  
S. Sivachandiran et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
--- PAGE 5 ---
Measurement: Sensors 24 (2022) 100422
5
It can be computing the running average with respect to means square as 
demonstrated in Eq. (4): 
v(w, t)= γv(w, t  1)+(1  γ)(∇Qi(w))2 (4)  
In Eq. (4), γ refers the forgetting factor 
w := w  n̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
v(w, t)
√ ∇Qi(w) (5) 
Eq. (5) depicts the upgrade of parameters. 
3. Results and discussion 
The experimental validation of the DLD-APDT model is trained using 
two datasets namely Pascal VOC [17] and PenFudan [18] dataset. Fig. 3 
provides a clear precision-recall curve of the DLD-APDT model attained 
under PascalVOC dataset. The figure implied that the DLD-APDT model 
has shown effectual outcome on the applied datasets. 
The person detection and tracking performance of the DLD-APDT 
model obtained under the PascalVOC dataset are illustrated in Fig. 4. 
The figure highlighted that the DLD-APDT method has shown an effec-
tual outcome with maximum ROC values. 
Table 1 and Fig. 5 provide an overall person detection performance 
of the DLD-APDT model on the applied PascalVOC dataset. The results 
indicated that the DLD-APDT method has obtained improved results 
with the maximum precn, recal, and average precn of 92.95%, 61.86%, 
and 69.94%. It also attained minimal False Positive Per Image (FPPI) 
and False Positive Per Window (FPPW) values of 0.047 and 0.071 
respectively. 
Fig. 6 offers a clear precision-recall curve of the DLD-APDT approach 
reached in PenFudan dataset. The figure shows the DLD-APDT algorithm 
has revealed effective outcome on the applied datasets. 
The person detection and tracking performance of the DLD-APDT 
methodology gained under the PenFudan dataset are showcased in 
Fig. 7. The figure examined that the DLD-APDT method has out-
performed effectual outcomes with maximal ROC values. 
Table 2 and Fig. 8 offer an overall person detection performance of 
the DLD-APDT algorithm on the applied PenFudan dataset. The out-
comes referred that the DLD-APDT system has gained higher outcomes 
with the maximal precn, recal, and average precn of 86.46%, 90.54%, and 
88.76%. It also achieved minimal FPPI and FPPW values of 0.141 and 
0.134 correspondingly. 
During the testing process, the result analysis of the DLD-APDT 
model is tested using two videos namely video 1 [19] and video 2 
Fig. 7. ROC analysis of DLD-APDT technique under PenFudan dataset.  
Table 2 
Overall analysis of DLD-APDT approach with various 
measures under PenFudan dataset.  
Measures Values 
Precision 86.46 
Recall 90.54 
FPPI 0.141 
FPPW 0.134 
Average Precision 88.76  
Fig. 8. Overall analysis of DLD-APDT approach under PenFudan dataset.  
S. Sivachandiran et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
--- PAGE 6 ---
Measurement: Sensors 24 (2022) 100422
6
[20]. Fig. 9 shows the sample person detection and tracking results 
offered by the DLD-APDT model on test video 1. The figure implied that 
the DLD-APDT model has effectually detected and tracked the persons 
present in the input frames. 
Fig. 10 depicts the sample person detection and tracking outcomes 
obtainable by the DLD-APDT approach on test video 2. The figure 
exposed that the DLD-APDT approach has effectively identified and 
tracked the persons present from the input frames. 
For demonstrating the better outcomes of the DLD-APDT model, a 
comparative analysis with existing models is made in Table 3 [21]. 
Fig. 11 provides a comparative study of the DLD-APDT method with 
recent DL algorithms interms of precn. The figure indicated that the 
EspiNetV2 model has shown ineffectual outcomes with lower precn value 
of 62.79%. Meanwhile, the Faster R–CNN and YOLOv3 methodologies 
Fig. 9. Sample person detection on test video 1.  
Fig. 10. Sample person detection on test video 2.  
S. Sivachandiran et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
--- PAGE 7 ---
Measurement: Sensors 24 (2022) 100422
7
have shown slightly enhanced detection performance with closer precn 
values of 85.71% and 85.65% correspondingly. However, the presented 
DLD-APDT method has demonstrated superior performance with 
maximal precn of 92.95%. 
Fig. 12 demonstrates a comparison analysis of the DLD-APDT algo-
rithm with recent DL models interms of recal. The figure indicated that 
the EspiNetV2 system has shown ineffectual outcomes with lower recal 
value of 59.85%. Also, the Faster R–CNN and YOLOv3 models have 
exposed somewhat maximal detection performance with closer recal 
values of 60.21% and 60.17% correspondingly. Eventually, the pre-
sented DLD-APDT algorithm has outperformed superior performance 
with higher recal of 61.86%. These results and discussion assured that 
the DLD-APDT model has demonstrated better people detection and 
tracking performance. 
4. Conclusion 
In this article, a new DLD-APDT model was enhanced for effectual 
person detection and tracking on surveillance videos. The proposed 
DLD-APDT model initially performs frame conversion process where the 
input video is converted into a set of frames. Followed by, the proposed 
DLD-APDT model utilized EfficientDet model to detect persons and track 
them. Finally, the RMSProp optimizer is applied to optimally choose the 
hyperparameters related to the EfficientNet model which helps in 
accomplishing enhanced performance. The experimental validation of 
the DLD-APDT model takes place using two training datasets namely 
PascalVOC and PenFudan datasets. The simulation results reported the 
enhanced detection and tracking performance of the DLD-APDT tech-
nique over current approaches. Hence, the DLD-APDT model can be 
utilized as an effectual person detector in real time environment. In 
future, metaheuristics based hyperparameter optimizers can be applied 
to enhance the detection efficiency of the DLD-APDT model. 
CRediT authorship contribution statement 
S. Sivachandiran: Manuscript Updation, Grammar correction. K. 
Jagan Mohan: Conceptualization, Methodology. G. Mohammed 
Nazer: Writing – review & editing. 
Declaration of competing interest 
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
the work reported in this paper. 
References 
[1] Z. Xu, J. Zhuang, Q. Liu, J. Zhou, S. Peng, Benchmarking a large-scale FIR dataset 
for on-road pedestrian detection, Infrared Physics & Technology 96 (2019) 
199–208. 
[2] K. Thaker, Multispectral Deep Neural Network for Low Light Object Detection 
(Doctoral Dissertation), 2021. 
[3] Z. Cui, C. Xu, W. Zheng, J. Yang, Context-dependent diffusion network for visual 
relationship detection, in: Proceedings of the 26th ACM International Conference on 
Multimedia, 2018, October, pp. 1475–1482. 
[4] X. Du, M. El-Khamy, V.I. Morariu, J. Lee, L. Davis, Fused Deep Neural Networks for 
Efficient Pedestrian Detection, 2018 arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.08688. 
[5] J. Nataprawira, Y. Gu, I. Goncharenko, S. Kamijo, Pedestrian detection using 
multispectral images and a deep neural network, Sensors 21 (7) (2021) 2536. 
[6] K. Essmaeel, C. Migniot, A. Dipanda, L. Gallo, E. Damiani, G. De Pietro, A new 3D 
descriptor for human classification: application for human detection in a multi- 
kinect system, Multimedia Tools and Applications 78 (16) (2019) 22479–22508. 
[7] T. Toprak, B. Belenlioglu, B. Aydın, C. Guzelis, M.A. Selver, Conditional weighted 
ensemble of transferred models for camera based onboard pedestrian detection in 
railway driver support systems, IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology 69 (5) 
(2020) 5041–5054. 
[8] S. Ghafoor, K.B. Khan, M.R. Tahir, M. Mustafa, Home automation security system 
based on face detection and recognition using IoT, in: International Conference on 
Intelligent Technologies And Applications, Springer, Singapore, 2019, November, 
pp. 67–78. 
[9] V. Chandrasekaran, C. Gao, B. Tang, K. Fawaz, S. Jha, S. Banerjee, Face-off: 
Adversarial Face Obfuscation, 2020 arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.08861. 
[10] Y. Al Atrash, Detecting and Counting People Faces in Images Using Deep Learning 
Approach, 2019. 
[11] F. Yang, H. Chen, J. Li, F. Li, L. Wang, X. Yan, Single shot multibox detector with 
kalman filter for online pedestrian detection in video, IEEE Access 7 (2019) 
15478–15488. 
[12] D. Wang, J. Lan, PPDet: a novel infrared pedestrian detection network in a per- 
pixel prediction fashion, Infrared Physics & Technology 119 (2021), 103965. 
[13] L. Cheng, X.Y. Jing, X. Zhu, F. Ma, C.H. Hu, Z. Cai, F. Qi, Scale-fusion framework 
for improving video-based person re-identification performance, Neural 
Computing and Applications 32 (16) (2020) 12841–12858. 
[14] R. Vrskova, R. Hudec, P. Sykora, P. Kamencay, M. Benco, Violent behavioral 
activity classification using artificial neural network, in: 2020 New Trends in 
Signal Processing (NTSP), IEEE, 2020, October, pp. 1–5. 
[15] R. Li, J. Wu, L. Cao, Ship Target Detection of Unmanned Surface Vehicle Base on 
Efficientdet, Systems Science & Control Engineering, 2021, pp. 1–8. 
[16] S. Ruder, An Overview of Gradient Descent Optimization Algorithms, 2016 arXiv 
preprint arXiv:1609.04747. 
[17] http://host.robots.ox.ac.uk/pascal/VOC/voc2007/index.html. 
[18] https://www.cis.upenn.edu/~jshi/ped_html/. 
[19] https://motchallenge.net/vis/PETS09-S2L1. 
[20] https://www.crcv.ucf.edu/data/UCF_Sports_Action.php. 
[21] S.A. Velastin, R. Fern´andez, J.E. Espinosa, A. Bay, Detecting, tracking and counting 
people getting on/off a metropolitan train using a standard video camera, Sensors 
20 (21) (2020) 6251. 
Table 3 
Comparative analysis of DLD-APDT approach with existing algorithms.  
Measures Precision Recall 
DLD-APDT Model 92.95 61.86 
EspiNetV2 Model 62.79 59.85 
Faster R–CNN Model 85.71 60.21 
Yolov3 Model 85.65 60.17  
Fig. 11. analysis of DLD-APDT algorithm with existing methods.  
Fig. 12. analysis of DLD-APDT algorithm with existing methods.  
S. Sivachandiran et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         