--- PAGE 1 ---
1 ---
Received December 13, 2021, accepted December 30, 2021, date of publication January 4, 2022, date of current version January 13, 2022.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1 109/ACCESS.202 1.3140164
Fall Detection System With Artificial
Intelligence-Based Edge Computing
BOR-SHING LIN
 1, (Senior Member, IEEE), TIKU YU
 2, CHIH-WEI PENG
 3,
CHUEH-HO LIN
 4,5, HUNG-KAI HSU 1, I-JUNG LEE
 1,6,
AND ZHAO ZHANG 1,6,7, (Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
1Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Taipei University, New Taipei City 237303, Taiwan
2Department of Communication Engineering, National Taipei University, New Taipei City 237303, Taiwan
3School of Biomedical Engineering, College of Biomedical Engineering, Taipei Medical University, Taipei 11031, Taiwan
4Master Program in Long-Term Care, College of Nursing, Taipei Medical University, Taipei 11031, Taiwan
5Center for Nursing and Healthcare Research in Clinical Practice Application, Wan Fang Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei 11031, Taiwan
6College of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, National Taipei University, New Taipei City 237303, Taiwan
7School of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Wuyi University, Wuyishan, Fujian 354300, China
Corresponding author: Chueh-Ho Lin (chueh.ho@tmu.edu.tw)
This work was supported in part by the Ministry of Science and Technology in Taiwan under Grant MOST 110-2314-B-305-001 and Grant
MOST 109-2221-E-305-001-MY2; in part by the University System of Taipei Joint Research Program under Grant
USTP-NTPU-TMU-107-02, Grant USTP-NTPU-TMU-108-01, Grant USTP-NTPU-TMU-109-03, and Grant
USTP-NTPU-NTOU-110-01; in part by the Faculty Group Research Funding Sponsorship by National Taipei University under Grant
2021-NTPU-ORDA-02; and in part by the National Taipei University, Taiwan, through the Academic Top-Notch and Features Field Project
under Grant 110-NTPU_ORDA-F-003.
ABSTRACT Falls are the second leading cause of death from unintentional injuries in older adults. Although
many systems have been used to detect falls, they are limited by the computational complexity of the
algorithm. The images taken by the camera must be transmitted through a network to the back-end server
for calculation. As the demand for Internet of Things increases, this architecture faces such problems as
high bandwidth costs and server computing overload. Emerging methods reduce the workload of servers
by transferring certain computing tasks from cloud servers to edge computing platforms. To this end, this
study developed a fall detection system based on neuromorphic computing hardware, which streamlines and
transplants the neural network model of the back-end computer to the edge computing platform. Through
the neural network model with integer 8 bit precision deployed on the edge computing platform, the object
photos obtained by the camera are converted into human motion features, and a support vector machine is
then used for classiﬁcation. After experimen
--- PAGE 2 ---
2 ---
B.-S. Lin et al.: Fall Detection System With Artificial Intelligence-Based Edge Computing
the cloud server is the resultant high cost in network band-
width, high latency, and privacy concerns [10]. With too
many users, the network bandwidth and loading of the cloud
computing may become unfeasible. The rapid advancement
of chip technology resulted in algorithms that could not be
calculated in real time on the front-end being transferred
from the cloud to the front-end, reducing the burden on the
server. An edge computing-based system could also be used
to perform better in real time than a cloud-based system [11],
which is highly valuable for fall detection systems. There-
fore, some fall detection systems based on edge computing
have been proposed, including architectures using general-
purpose processors [12]–[17] and neuromorphic computing
hardware [18]. The general-purpose processor architecture
used in many studies is relatively easy to implement but
consumes considerable time and computing resources to
complete the neural network algorithm. These studies have
been limited to the use of relatively low-rank robust methods
such as statistics and thresholds. Although [17] used deep
learning methods in which continuous frames were input to
the neural network to train it to dynamically recognize falls,
the system was forced to reduce the image resolution to 32×
32 to achieve real-time computation on the central processing
unit (CPU). Low-resolution images can only provide close-
range information, which limits their potential applicability.
Other studies have demonstrated that a fall detection system
based on deep learning can effectively improve detection
accuracy [18]. However, if a fall detection system based on
deep learning is to be implemented on an edge computing
platform with general-purpose processor architecture, it may
be more time-consuming and may not achieve real-time fall
detection.
To address the aforementioned problems, this study pro-
posed a fall detection system based on edge computing, which
combined a camera and neuromorphic computing hardware
based on an application-speciﬁc integrated circuit. The Y ou
Only Look Once lightweight (YOLO-LW) deep neural net-
work was implemented on the neuromorphic computing
hardware. Experiments have validated that the YOLO-LW
algorithm combined with a support vector machine (SVM)
can run smoothly on the edge computing platform and can
accurately detect fall events in real time. In this study, the
captured images are not uploaded to the cloud server, so when
a large number of cameras are installed in practical applica-
tions, fall detection system does not occupy additional large
amount of bandwidth, and server is not blocked by processing
images from all cameras at the same time. And the edge
computing platform sends a warning to server only if a fall
event is detected, so the transmission delay can be negligible.
Thus, user privacy is protected to a certain extent.
II. RELATED WORKS
S
--- PAGE 3 ---
3 ---
B.-S. Lin et al.: Fall Detection System With Artificial Intelligence-Based Edge Computing
detects falls with high accuracy 97.8% and 91.7% on the waist
and the leg.
Saleh and Jeannès [14] proposed a machine learning-based
fall detection algorithm designed to deploy on wearable
sensor. 12-component statistical features vector is extracted
from a triaxial acceleration signal. The SVM-based algo-
rithm is used to classify fall events. The experimental results
show that the proposed algorithm can reach 99.9% on Sisfall
dataset. In addition, the system implements algorithm with a
computational cost of less than 500 ﬂoating point operations
per second.
Y uet al. proposed a fall detection system based on neuro-
morphic computing hardware [19] in which the user wore a
device with an embedded inertial measurement unit (IMU) to
measure human movement and capture ﬁve types of activi-
ties, including falls.
The studies [13], [14], [19] implement fall detection algo-
rithm on an embedded system and experimental results show
high accuracy. These studies are limited to the use of lower
computational cost methods such as SVM or threshold.
In addition, wearable system is inconvenience.
Rajavel et al. [20] proposed an IoT-based healthcare smart
system. The system detects fall events with cloud server,
edge computing devices and cameras. The images captured
from cameras are transmitted to edge computing devices via
Wi-Fi. The edge computing devices ﬁlter the non-sensitive
data to reduce the communication bandwidth between the
edge layer and cloud layer by transmitting only the needful
data to the cloud layer. A deep convolution neural network
classiﬁer is used to detect fall events on the cloud server.
The system exploits only 150 kbps network bandwidth and
80 s response time compared to past research. In addition,
the system spends 72.76 s on prediction and accuracy reaches
94.5%. The research [20] uses cloud-edge based computing
framework to implement fall prediction and performance
exceeds previous research. But the long prediction time and
response time may cause a fall event that cannot be handled
immediately in the actual situation.
In order to address the aforementioned problems, a fall
detection method based on artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) edge
computing with vision sensor was proposed in this study.
The proposed algorithms are deployed on edge computing
platforms with AI chips. All operations are done on the edge
computing platform.
III. METHOD
A. SYSTEM OVERVIEW
The main components of the edge computing platform used
in this study were a camera (ov2640, OmniVision Technolo-
gies, Shanghai, China) and an AI development board (Sipeed
MAix GO, Sipeed Technology, Shenzhen, China), as depicted
in Fig. 1. The core chip Sipeed M1W of the AI development
board was composed of Kendryte K210 (Canaan, Beijing,
China) and the Wi-Fi chip ESP8285. The K210 has two
RISC-V CPUs and a neural network processor (KPU) that
FIGURE 1. Prototype of the edge computing platfo
--- PAGE 4 ---
4 ---
B.-S. Lin et al.: Fall Detection System With Artificial Intelligence-Based Edge Computing
FIGURE 3. Process of training and deploying neural networks.
[12], [13] to detect falls. In the AI model training phase,
it is ﬁrst trained using collected posture photos on the PC,
and then the trained neural network on the edge comput-
ing platform is deployed. The PC speciﬁcations comprised
a CPU (I7-10700F, Intel, Santa Clara, CA, USA), graph-
ics processing unit (GPU) display card (RTX 3080 10G,
AsusTeK, Taipei, Taiwan) and 64-gigabyte dynamic random-
access memory. The neural network training framework
Darknet [21] was used for training the AI model. The trained
neural network is input to the conversion program and con-
verted into a TensorFlow-based model that the KPU can infer.
The KPU only partially supports TensorFlow operators, and
the rebuilding of neural networks using supported operators
to develop new edge computing neural networks is a gradual
process.
Fig. 3 depicts the process of training and deploying neural
networks. In preparation of the AI model training, the col-
lected images were ﬁrst labeled using free image labeling
software (Labellmg) to manually generate the coordinate
tuple data of the bounding box, including the width and
height of the bounding box and the x- and y-axis distance
from the upper left corner of the bounding box to the origin
(upper left corner of the image). The coordinate tuple of
the bounding box is used as the ground truth to train the
neural network. Details of the labeled bounding box and
coordinate tuple are presented in Fig. 4. During the following
training process, the neural network makes inferences on the
input images and generate estimated coordinate tuples. The
estimated coordinate tuple and coordinate tuple of ground
truth are then calculated for the loss function, and the neurons
of the neural network are updated through back propagation.
When the training is complete, low-precision quantization of
the neural network is performed to increase the speed of the
model and reduce the power consumption of the inferring
model [22]–[24]. This low precision includes 16-bit ﬂoat
format, 8-bit integer format, and 4-bit integer format. The
neural network on the computer side is converted from 32-bit
ﬂoat format to 8-bit integer format through low-precision
quantization, during which the offset value in the neuron is
ignored, and a threshold T is selected between the maximum
FIGURE 4. (a) Labeled bounding box; (b) Coordinate tuple of the ground
truth: left, top, width, and height.
and minimum weight value in all neurons. The weight value
between−T–T is remapped to−127 to 127, and other weight
values are discarded. To minimize the inﬂuence of the miss-
ing model information, the model is calibrated using the
calibration dataset. The model uses different Ts to infer the
calibration dataset to determine the threshold T that least
affects the accuracy of the model. This study employed the
training dataset as th
--- PAGE 5 ---
5 ---
B.-S. Lin et al.: Fall Detection System With Artificial Intelligence-Based Edge Computing
and simplify the neurons. According to [29], the ratio of
the amount of deep separable convolutional layers to that of
the calculated ordinary convolutional layers can be expressed
as (1).
Cost depth_conv+ Cost point_conv
Cost standard_conv
= 1
N+ 1
K 2 (1)
where Cost depth_conv represents the computational cost of the
deep convolutional layer; Cost point_conv represents that of the
point convolutional layer; Cost standard_conv represents that of
the ordinary convolutional layer; N represents the number of
channels; and K denotes the size of the kernel.
Figs. 7 and 8 depict the modiﬁed YOLO v2-tiny and YOLO
v3-tiny. According to Eq. (1), when the common convolu-
tional layer is replaced by the deep separable convolutional
layer with more ﬁlters (i.e., channels) and a larger kernel size,
the computational cost is reduced. Considering the limitation
of memory, we chose to replace the convolutional layer, with
a ﬁlter amount greater than or equal to 512, with the deep
separated convolutional layer. The ﬁlters in the output layer
of YOLO v3-tiny are fewer than those in YOLO v2-tiny, and
the calculation cost of the output layer is therefore reduced to
approximately two-thirds that of YOLO v2-tiny. To further
shrink YOLO v3-tiny, some convolutional layers with a ﬁlter
amount of 256 were replaced with deep separated convolu-
tional layers.
However, after low-precision quantization, the test indi-
cated that the accuracy of the neural network executed on the
edge computing platform decreased. To improve the accu-
racy, some convolutional layers were added to increase the
depth of the neural network. Because the categories were
changed from 85 of the original YOLO v3-tiny to 1 (only
one category for humans), the ﬁlters of the output layer must
be changed from the original 255 of the YOLO v3-tiny to
18. The addition of convolutional layers between the out-
put layer and the previous layer and a decrease in ﬁlters
better condenses the features, and the increased amount of
calculation is sustainable. Eq. (2) expresses the relation-
ship between the categories and the ﬁlters of output layer.
Fig. 9 presents the architecture of the modiﬁed YOLO v3-tiny
following the addition of the convolutional layers. In this
study, this lightweight modiﬁed YOLO v3-tiny was named
YOLO-LW.
F= (C+ 5)× A (2)
where F is the number of ﬁlters in the output layer; C is
the number of classes; A is the number of anchor points;
and the number of YOLO v3-tiny anchor points is equal to
3. Therefore, the number of ﬁlters in the modiﬁed YOLO
v3-tiny output layer is (1+ 5)× 3= 18.
C. EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURES
In this study, we collected data from 19 participants, includ-
ing 11 men and 8 women. The ratio of young to old was
9:10, and their average age, height, and weight was 46.3 ±
16.1 years, 166.1± 9.9 cm, and 67.3± 12.8 kg, respectively.
The collected data were captured in ﬁve different indoor

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 ---
B.-S. Lin et al.: Fall Detection System With Artificial Intelligence-Based Edge Computing
FIGURE 5. Architecture of YOLO v2-tiny.
FIGURE 6. Architecture of YOLO v3-tiny.
FIGURE 7. Architecture of the modified YOLO v2-tiny.
falls; and false negative (FN) is the number of falls that are
mistaken for normal activities.
In the performance evaluation of YOLO and the overall
system (YOLO and SVM), the PC and edge computing plat-
form were used to evaluate and compare the performance of
different YOLO models, respectively. The overall experimen-
tal process is detailed in Fig. 10.
IV. RESULTS
A. EXPERIMENTAL RESUL TS FOR THE ORIGINAL AND
MODIFIED YOLO MODELS
The key part of this system is the design of the AI model
of the bounding human body. If an AI model with effective
performance can be selected for use, the overall fall detec-
tion function is greatly improved. The AI model used for
VOLUME 10, 2022 4333

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 ---
B.-S. Lin et al.: Fall Detection System With Artificial Intelligence-Based Edge Computing
FIGURE 8. Architecture of the modified YOLO v3-tiny.
FIGURE 9. Architecture of the modified YOLO v3-tiny following the addition of the convolutional layers.
TABLE 1. Comparison Yolo v2-tiny and Yolo v3-tiny IoU.
the bounding human body in this system was scheduled to
be implemented with YOLO v2-tiny, YOLO v3-tiny, or an
improved version, because the algorithm of the YOLO system
is effective for human body detection and its small size facili-
tates transplantation to the edge computing platform. To eval-
uate the AI model, 5-fold cross-validation was employed.
During training, the k-means was used to re-ﬁnd the anchor
points of the training dataset. The learning rate was set to
0.001, and the loss of neural network after training was lower
than 0.05.
The effectiveness of YOLO v2-tiny and YOLO v3-tiny for
bounding the human body area was tested on the PC, and the
comparison is described in Table 1. Signiﬁcant differences
were noted between the two models, YOLO v3-tiny outper-
formed YOLO v2-tiny. YOLO v3-tiny could detect all objects
within 2 to 3.5 m, and the IoU was 98.16%, but YOLO v2-tiny
could not detect some body curls and tiny objects and had a
lower IoU.
The performance of the modiﬁed YOLO v2-tiny and
modiﬁed YOLO v3-tiny was tested and compared on the
PC, and the comparison results are presented in Table 2.
The experimental results revealed that the modiﬁed YOLO
v3-tiny still detected all objects, but the IoU decreased to
95.51%. However, YOLO v2-tiny exhibited poorer perfor-
mance in human body detection, and the IoU decreased
to 74.86%.
B. EXPERIMENTAL RESUL TS FOR DIFFERENT PRECISION
FORMAT MODELS
By comparing the performance of YOLO v2-tiny and YOLO
v3-tiny and that of the modiﬁed YOLO v2-tiny and modi-
ﬁed YOLO v3-tiny, we determined that the modiﬁed YOLO
v3-tiny or its simpliﬁed version was more suitable for use.
We then tested the performance of the modiﬁed YOLO
v3-tiny with ﬂoat 16 precision format, modiﬁed YOLO
v3-tiny with integer 8 precision format, and modiﬁed
4334 VOLUME 10, 2022

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 ---
B.-S. Lin et al.: Fall Detection System With Artificial Intelligence-Based Edge Computing
FIGURE 10. Overall experimental process for the performance evaluation
of different AI models, stages, and platforms.
TABLE 2. Comparison between the modified Yolo v2-tiny and modified
Yolo v3-tiny IoU.
YOLO v3-tiny with integer 8 precision format and a con-
volutional layer (Fig. 9) on the edge computing platform.
The comparison of the experimental results is detailed in
Table 3. The ﬂoat 16 precision format model used the CPU
on the edge computing platform to infer the neural network.
The IoU was 94.6%, which is 0.9% lower than that of the
computer version of the ﬂoat 32 precision format model at
95.51%. The integer 8 precision format model used the KPU
on the edge computing platform to infer the neural network;
the resultant IoU of 91.2% was 4.3% lower than that of the
ﬂoat 32 precision format model. Although the IoU of the ﬂoat
16 precision format model was higher than that of the integer
8 model, the FPS of the integer 8 model was 14.7 times
that of the ﬂoat 16 model. Following the addition of the
convolutional layer to the integer 8 precision format model,
the IoU increased to 94.5% and FPS decreased by 0.3%.
Among the three models, the integer 8 precision format model
TABLE 3. Comparison of different precision format models on edge
computing platform.
is the smallest at approximately half the size of the other two
models.
C. SYSTEM EVALUATION
The ﬁrst step of the proposed system is human bounding.
Table 3 presents the performances of bounding models. The
ﬁnal result shows that model on edge computing platform can
reach 94.5% average IoU with 11.5 FPS.
The second step of the proposed system is SVM classiﬁca-
tion. Table 4 presents the performance of bounding model and
SVM classiﬁer. System spends less than 0.001 s on feature
extraction and SVM classiﬁcation. The system using YOLO
v3-tiny achieved an accuracy of 92.5% on the PC, which is
almost the same as the classiﬁcation result using the ground
truth. After part of the convolutional layer was replaced with
a deep separated convolutional layer, the modiﬁed YOLO
v3-tiny achieved an accuracy of 91.6%, a decrease of 0.9%.
The modiﬁed ability of YOLO v3-tiny to detect objects with
curved bodies was slightly reduced, but the classiﬁcation
was largely correct. When the modiﬁed YOLO v3-tiny was
converted to the integer 8 precision format, the information
of the neural network was lost, resulting in a decreased IoU.
The addition of a convolutional layer can effectively improve
the performance of the neural network, which forms a new
model, YOLO-LW. In comparison with the system that used
the modiﬁed YOLO v3-tiny, the system that used YOLO-LW
exhibited a slight decrease in accuracy (0.5%).
The ﬁnal step of the proposed system is fall event detection.
A sliding window is used to detect fall event. When the falling
state appears more than three times in a sliding window, the
result is considered as a fall.
--- PAGE 9 ---
9 ---
B.-S. Lin et al.: Fall Detection System With Artificial Intelligence-Based Edge Computing
TABLE 4. Comparison of SVM and different models.
TABLE 5. Performance of whole system.
FIGURE 11. Results under different sizes of sliding windows.
hardware to replace the software for deep learning in embed-
ded systems. We executed our self-developed YOLO-LW on
neuromorphic computing hardware to maintain the running
time of the neural network with the integer 8 precision format,
without losing the region of interest (ROI) changes related to
possible fall events.
To evaluate the fall detection system involving the ROI,
various action photos collected from ﬁve indoor scenes were
transmitted to ﬁve YOLO models with different neural layer
structures, and their performances were compared through
5-fold cross-validation. From the experimental results of
Table 1, at a resolution of 320 × 224, the YOLO v3-tiny
outperformed the YOLO v2-tiny. This is attributable to
the YOLO v3-tiny use of upsampling to obtain high-scale
feature maps and retain the information of small targets.
As described in Table 2, the modiﬁed YOLO v3-tiny exhib-
ited greater accuracy than the modiﬁed YOLO v2-tiny but
exhibited 2.65% less accuracy compared with that of the
YOLO v3-tiny. The modiﬁed YOLO v3-tiny used a deep
separation of convolutional layers to reduce the complexity
of the model; thus, the accuracy was slightly reduced, but the
model size was also reduced by one-ﬁfth.
In the fall detection system, the bounding of the human
body is a critical technology. Generally, an improved IoU
increases the hit rate of human body area, and a reduction in
IoU often occurs when the detection object is self-occluded
during bending of the body, such as having the individual
having their back to camera or curling their limbs. Addi-
tionally, in the process of porting the PC-side programs to
the edge computing platform, some components may be
abandoned, causing IoU decline. Some studies have indi-
cated that a remapping of the neural network with high
precision format to the neural network with low precision
format can effectively reduce the model size and maintain
the accuracy [23], [24]. The experimental results outlined in
Table 3 demonstrated that the modiﬁed YOLO v3-tiny with
ﬂoat 16 format exhibited only a 0.91% decrease in IoU than
the model before conversion, but the model size is half that of
the original. However, the modiﬁed YOLO v3-tiny with ﬂoat
16 precision format could not make inferences in the neuro-
morphic computing hardware and only reached 0.8 FPS with
CPU inference. The modiﬁed YOLO v3-tiny with integer
8 precision format used neuromorphic computing hardware to
infer and reached 11.8 FPS, but the IoU decreased by 4.3%.
Despite the robustness of the modiﬁed YOLO v3-tiny with
integer 8 precision format and its ability to detect all objects in
different scenes and with different actions, the IoU decreased
markedly. If the complexity of the model is increased through
the addi
--- PAGE 10 ---
10 ---
B.-S. Lin et al.: Fall Detection System With Artificial Intelligence-Based Edge Computing
TABLE 6. Comparison of the proposed method and other fall detection systems.
neural network was simulated using PSpice as a circuit of
the neuromorphic computing hardware. The system analyzed
the IMU data to determine falls with an accuracy of 88.9%,
though the author performed a circuit simulation rather than
constructing the wearable device. Y ang et al. [30] used ﬁeld
programmable gate array (FPGA)-based ZYNQ-7020 hard-
ware to implement a CNN model with an accuracy rate of
92%, but the power consumption of 2.5 W is too costly for
a fall monitoring system that must operate for a long time.
The detection time was also 0.43 s, with an FPS of only
2.42. Mauldin et al. [31] employed three-layer open system
architecture to transmit the sensor data from a smart watch
to a smartphone for edge computing. They implemented a
recurrent neural network on a smartphone based on an ARM
processor, but an accuracy of only 70% was achieved. The
method of Alaoui et al. [32] is to ﬁrst calculate the key
points of human skeleton, and then use principal component
analysis (PCA) and SVM to detect whether someone has
fallen in the image data. The accuracy of the experimental
results of their algorithm is 98.5%. The overall performance
is good, but the entire study is based on an analysis of a ready-
made dataset, and it is impossible to conﬁrm the performance
in the real environment. The system will transmit the video
to the server, there will be the problem of personal privacy
leakage. Chang et al. [33] constructed OpenPose-light and
SVM algorithms on an edge computing platform (Jetson
TX2, NVIDIA Corp., Santa Clara, CA, USA) to detect falls
for elderly people with an accuracy of 98.1%. Its overall
performance is good, and the use of edge computing can
avoid personal privacy issues. But its processing time is a bit
of long and power consumption is a bit of high.
Overall, the method proposed in this study was more
accurate than the aforementioned methods. In terms of use,
we used a camera as the input device, which is more con-
venient than a wearable fall detection system using IMU.
Regarding the same vision-based solution, compared with
the 2.5 W and 15 W power consumption reported in [30]
and [33] respectively, the architecture proposed in this study
required 0.3 W, providing a low-cost, low-computing, feasi-
ble resource allocation solution. In terms of detection speed,
this system reached 11.5 FPS, which provided effective real-
time performance. Additionally, the FPGA debugging pro-
cess is difﬁcult and extends the development time.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this study, a fall detection system with neuromorphic com-
puting hardware for AI-based edge computing was proposed.
The images of individuals were captured through the camera
and transmitted to the neural network model on the edge com-
puting platform. After detection of the object characteristics,
the SVM was used for
--- PAGE 11 ---
11 ---
B.-S. Lin et al.: Fall Detection System With Artificial Intelligence-Based Edge Computing
variety of light may affect performance of fall detection
system.
In future work, the fall detection system can incorporate the
use of different sensors, such as a thermal camera installation
to monitor the activities of older adults in lightly lit environ-
ments and at night or a ﬁsheye lens installation to expand
the detection range. In addition, different shooting angles and
complex occlusion situations can be further evaluated.
REFERENCES
[1] S. J. Naja, M. M. Makhlouf, and M. Chehab, ‘‘An ageing world of the 21st
century: A literature review,’’Int. J. Community Med. Public, vol. 4, no. 12,
pp. 4364–4369, 2017.
[2] C. S. Florence, G. Bergen, A. Atherly, E. Burns, J. Stevens, and C. Drake,
‘‘Medical costs of fatal and nonfatal falls in older adults,’’Ann. Long-Term
Care, vol. 66, no. 4, pp. 693–698, Jul. 2018.
[3] E. Auvinet, F. Multon, A. Saint-Arnaud, J. Rousseau, and J. Meunier, ‘‘Fall
detection with multiple cameras: An occlusion-resistant method based on
3-D silhouette vertical distribution,’’ IEEE Trans. Inf. Technol. Biomed.,
vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 290–300, Mar. 2011.
[4] N. Lu, Y . Wu, L. Feng, and J. Song, ‘‘Deep learning for fall detection:
Three-dimensional CNN combined with LSTM on video kinematic data,’’
IEEE J. Biomed. Health Inform., vol. 23, no. 1, pp. 314–323, Jan. 2019.
[5] E. Akagunduz, M. Aslan, A. Sengu, H. Wang, and M. C. Ince, ‘‘Silhouette
orientation volumes for efﬁcient fall detection in depth videos,’’ IEEE
J. Biomed. Health Informat., vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 756–763, May 2017.
[6] Z.-P . Bian, J. Hou, L.-P . Chau, and N. Magnenat-Thalmann, ‘‘Fall detection
based on body part tracking using a depth camera,’’IEEE J. Biomed. Health
Inform., vol. 19, no. 2, pp. 430–439, Mar. 2015.
[7] F. Harrou, N. Zerrouki, Y . Sun, and A. Houacine, ‘‘An integrated vision-
based approach for efﬁcient human fall detection in a home environment,’’
IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 114966–114974, 2019.
[8] B.-H. Wang, J. Y u, K. Wang, X.-Y . Bao, and K.-M. Mao, ‘‘Fall detec-
tion based on dual-channel feature integration,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 8,
pp. 103443–103453, 2020.
[9] A. Lotﬁ, S. Albawendi, H. Powell, K. Appiah, and C. Langensiepen,
‘‘Supporting independent living for older adults: Employing a visual based
fall detection through analyzing the motion and shape of the human body,’’
IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 70272–70282, 2018.
[10] N. Abbas, Y . Zhang, A. Taherkordi, and T. Skeie, ‘‘Mobile edge computing:
A survey,’’IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 450–465, May 2018.
[11] Y . Liu, M. Peng, G. Shou, Y . Chen, and S. Chen, ‘‘Toward edge intelli-
gence: Multiaccess edge computing for 5G and Internet of Things,’’ IEEE
Internet Things J., vol. 7, no. 8, pp. 6722–6747, Aug. 2020.
[12] K. Ozcan and S. V elipasalar, ‘‘Wearable camera and accelerometer-based
fall detection on portable devices,’’ IEEE Embed. Syst. Lett., vol. 8, no. 1,
pp. 6–9, Mar. 2015.
[1
