--- PAGE 1 ---
1 ---
Received 6 September 2022, accepted 26 September 2022, date of publication 4 October 2022, date of current version 12 October 2022.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1 109/ACCESS.2022.32 1 1939
Multi Visual Modality Fall Detection Dataset
STEFAN DENKOVSKI
 1,2, SHEHROZ S. KHAN
 1,2, (Member, IEEE), BRANDON MALAMIS 2,
SAE YOUNG MOON 1,2, BING YE 1,2, AND ALEX MIHAILIDIS 1,2
1KITE Research Institute, Toronto Rehabilitation Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, ON M5G 2A2, Canada
2Institute of Biomedical Engineering, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5G 2A2, Canada
Corresponding author: Stefan Denkovski (stefan.denkovski@mail.utoronto.ca)
This work was support by the Aging Gracefully Across Environments Using Technology to Support Wellness, Engagement and Long Life
Networks of Centres of Excellence (AGE-WELL NCE) through Research Fund under Grant 499052.
This work involved human subjects or animals in its research. Approval of all ethical and experimental procedures and protocols was
granted by the University of Toronto Research Ethics Boards under Protocol No. 00036744.
ABSTRACT Falls are one of the leading causes of injury-related deaths among the elderly worldwide.
Effective detection of falls can reduce the risk of complications and injuries. Fall detection can be performed
using wearable devices or ambient sensors; these methods may struggle with user compliance issues or false
alarms. Video cameras provide a passive alternative; however, regular red, green, and blue (RGB) cameras
are impacted by changing lighting conditions and privacy concerns. From a machine learning perspective,
developing an effective fall detection system is challenging because of the rarity and variability of falls. Many
existing fall detection datasets lack important real-world considerations, such as varied lighting, continuous
activities of daily living (ADLs), and camera placement. The lack of these considerations makes it difﬁcult
to develop predictive models that can operate effectively in the real world. To address these limitations,
we introduce a novel multi-modality dataset (MUVIM) that contains four visual modalities: infra-red, depth,
RGB and thermal cameras. These modalities offer beneﬁts such as obfuscated facial features and improved
performance in low-light conditions. We formulated fall detection as an anomaly detection problem, in which
a customized spatio-temporal convolutional autoencoder was trained only on ADLs so that a fall would
increase the reconstruction error. Our results showed that infra-red cameras provided the highest level of
performance (AUC ROC = 0.94), followed by thermal (AUC ROC = 0.87), depth (AUC ROC = 0.86)
and RGB (AUC ROC= 0.83). This research provides a unique opportunity to analyze the utility of camera
modalities in detecting falls in a home setting while balancing performance, passiveness, and privacy.
INDEX TERMS Fall detection, multi-modal, autoencoder, anomaly detection, deep learning, computer
vision.
I. INTR
--- PAGE 2 ---
2 ---
S. Denkovski et al.: Multi Visual Modality Fall Detection Dataset
a well-deﬁned class or to capture all possible variations in a
dataset [12], [13], [14].
Many possibilities exist for the practical implementation
of fall-detection systems. However, because solutions are
ultimately intended to be implemented in a person’s daily life,
they should be easy to live with. Thus, passive systems are
ideal, as they require no input from the user. They can monitor
the environment before detecting a fall. These systems are
preferable because a user may be unresponsive after a fall,
or they may not be wearing a monitoring device [15], [16].
However, older adults express privacy concerns regarding
passive systems such as cameras. In addition to these con-
cerns, systems must balance high sensitivity to falls while
maintaining a low false alarm rate. Missed falls are potentially
dangerous to users, who may rely on a passive system to
detect falls. In contrast, a system with a high false alarm
rate can cause many issues. If a system automatically calls
an ambulance or even notiﬁes loved ones, a high false alarm
rate would result in large bills, potentially ignored cases of
real falls, and eventual rejection of the monitoring system.
Therefore, the key factors to consider when designing a
system are (i) passive, (ii) privacy protection and, (iii) per-
form with a high fall detection rate and low false alarm rate.
In this paper, we introduce a novel multi-camera and mutli-
modal fall detection dataset containing falls and ADLs from
30 healthy adults and ADLs (with no fall) from 10 older
adults. This dataset collected data in a semi-naturalistic set-
ting inside a room designed as a home. The experiments are
designed to emulate real-world scenarios and sequences of
events. This study used six visual modalities mounted on
the ceiling and four additional wearable modalities. The six
visual modalities consisted of two infra-red cameras, two
depth cameras, a thermal camera, and an RGB camera. The
four wearable modalities included an accelerometer, PPG,
GSR and temperature sensors. We did comprehensive experi-
ments on detecting falls using a customized 3D convolutional
autoencoder and showed that infra-red modalities performed
the best among others, including depth, thermal and RGB
cameras.
A. LITERATURE REVIEW
A wide range of modalities, methods of capturing informa-
tion, and subsequent systems have been explored for fall
detection. They can be divided into various groups, such
as wearables, ambient sensors and computer vision-based
sensors [17], [18]. Khan and Hoey [9] presented a review of
fall detection methods based on the availability of fall data
during model training.
Wearable systems often incorporate accelerometers, gyro-
scopes, and inertial measurement units (IMUs) to detect falls.
However, other modalities may also be used such as an
electroencephalographic (EEG) or barometric sensors [19],
[20]. Systems that use accelerometers or IMUs are relative
--- PAGE 3 ---
3 ---
S. Denkovski et al.: Multi Visual Modality Fall Detection Dataset
silhouette, in which the vertical volume distribution ratio was
used to classify falls.
The Kinect Infrared dataset published by
Mastorakis et al., [28] used one camera placed at eye level
in the middle of a wall. The dataset included three variations
of camera angles (backward, forward and sideways) totaling
48 video falls. The direction of the fall is important because
of the eye-level placement of the camera. In addition to falls,
activities were performed while sitting, lying on the ﬂoor, and
‘‘picking up an item from the ﬂoor’’ were performed by eight
different participants. Additionally, two participants were
asked to perform activities slowly to replicate the movements
of older adults. OpenNI and depth data were used from the
Kinect sensor to generate a 3D bounding box whose ﬁrst
derivative parameters were analyzed to classify falls.
The EDF/OCCU datasets contain two viewpoints of a
kinetic camera [29]. Their data were then divided into two
datasets. A non-occlusion dataset, EDF, of 40 falls and
30 actions, and an occlusion dataset, OCCU, of 30 occluded
falls and 80 actions were used. Both viewpoints were from
cameras placed at eye level, and thus ’directional falls’ were
performed. Room furniture and fall variations were minimal,
with most variations related to the direction of falls. Occlu-
sion was introduced by a single bed positioned to block the
view of the bottom half of a fall. Actions in the dataset without
occlusions included: picking things off the ﬂoor; sitting on
the ﬂoor; and lying on the ﬂoor. These same actions were
performed in the occluded dataset, with the further addition
of tying shoelaces. All actions, except for lying on the ﬂoor
were occluded by the bed.
The SDU dataset comprises ten young adults performing
six simple actions captured with a depth camera [23]. These
include falling, bending, squatting, sitting, lying down and
walking. These actions were repeated 30 times each under the
following conditions: carrying or not carrying a large object,
lighting on or off, room layout, camera direction, and position
relative to the camera. Despite the large variation in each
repetition of the action, the eye-level placement of the camera
indicates that the direction is still important. Additionally, all
actions were still short and segmented with an average length
of eight seconds per clip.
The KUL simulated fall detection dataset was designed to
address many of the shortcomings that these datasets face
when real-world factors were considered [30]. Five IP cam-
eras, 55 fall scenarios, and 17 ADL videos were used. The
dataset includes realistic environments (in terms of furnish-
ings) and longer videos instead of short, segmented clips of
various activities. Five goals were highlighted to improve the
real-world effectiveness of the dataset. This includes realistic
settings, fall scenarios, improved balance of ADL to fall
activities, including real-wor
--- PAGE 4 ---
4 ---
S. Denkovski et al.: Multi Visual Modality Fall Detection Dataset
TABLE 1. Fall detection datasets with unimodal camera(s).
TABLE 2. Highlighting various multi-modal datasets, their modalities and considerations.
participants. A table consisting of these ‘‘real’’ world factors
are outlined in Table 1.
C. MUL TIMODAL DATASETS
In recent years, the ability to merge a variety of sensors to
improve performance has become of interest in fall detection
systems and several multi-modal datasets have emerged. This
is because a multi-modal approach provides different sources
of information that can help compensate for the deﬁciencies
in each other.
Combining modalities may complement each other from
a technical perspective, but it may cause practical consider-
ations to be further impaired. More modalities mean more
sensors or cameras, increasing costs and potentially more
inconvenience to the user. Because a wide range of modalities
are used for fall detection, a wide range of combinations
is possible. Thus, it is important to select modalities that
are complimentary to each other without increasing practical
costs to the user. These practical or real-world considerations
for multi-modal datasets are highlighted in Table 2.
The UP fall detection data set contained two cameras at
eye level with frontal and lateral views [19]. Other modalities
were captured through ﬁve IMU sensors, one EEG head-
set and six infrared motion sensors placed in a grid. The
activities were limited to six simple motions and ﬁve fall
variations. Activities varied from 10 to 60 seconds and were
segmented from each other. The limited fall directions and
short segmented activities limit the real-world implications of
this dataset. In addition, many of the chosen modalities were
also impractical. Five IMU sensors are difﬁcult to imple-
ment; selection of only most relevant sensors may be more
plausible, which was performed by the authors in a follow up
paper [34], [35]. However, motion sensors still struggle with
accuracy and with occlusions or furniture placed in a room.
EEG headsets may also be extremely difﬁcult to use in the
real world.
The URFD dataset was recorded with two Kinect cameras.
One was at eye level and one was ceiling-mounted for fall
sequences [36]. However, only a single eye level camera was
used to record the ADL activities. The accelerometer was
worn on the lower back using an elastic belt. This sensor
location is not ideal because a special device would need to
be worn. The dataset contained only 30 falls and 40 activities
of daily living. Along with the limited dataset size, it also
contained short, segmented activities and falls with limited
variation.
The CMDFALL dataset [14] focuses on multi-view as well
as multi-modal capturing. Seven overlapping Kinect sensors
were used, and two accelerometers were worn on the right
hand and hip. The room was well lit, with a minimal amount
of furniture in the room unless required for the fall scenario.
It also contain
--- PAGE 5 ---
5 ---
S. Denkovski et al.: Multi Visual Modality Fall Detection Dataset
considerations were also lacking, where collecting many
multi-modal datasets could require multiple wearable devices
to be worn.
D. INTRODUCED MUL TI-MODAL DATASET (MUVIM)
To circumvent the problems associated with previous
uni-modal and multi-modal datasets, we present the Multi
Visual Modality fall detection dataset (MUVIM), which is
a novel, multi-camera, multi-modality fall detection dataset.
The MUVIM dataset places a larger emphasis on dif-
ferent types of camera-based modalities. Multiple camera
modalities were selected because of their practical impli-
cation compared to wearable or other types of modalities.
Additionally, this allows for a direct comparison between
privacy-protecting and non privacy-protecting modalities.
In MUVIM, wearable modalities were also included for
completeness and to allow researchers to explore vari-
ous combinations and performances. However, they were
removed from further analysis in this paper. Camera modali-
ties involving thermal, depth, infra-red and RGB cameras are
only considered to develop models to detect falls.
The RGB camera is the most commonly available camera
and provides a good baseline for comparison with the other
modalities. Infra-red contains only grayscale images, but
the image quality is still high enough to discern identifying
features. However, these are low cost cameras, that operate
well in low light scenarios with a wide ﬁeld of view. Depth
cameras are less common, but are still relatively low in cost.
They are light-independent, and do not capture identifying
features. They can struggle with creating a consistent image
due to ‘‘holes’’ that occur in the depth-math due to sen-
sor limitations. In addition, they struggle with scenarios in
which participants, backgrounds or occlusions have similar
distances.
For access to the dataset, email: alex.mihailidis@utoronto.
ca. Please set the subject line to ‘‘Fall detection data access
request’’, and include your include title, email address,
work address, and afﬁliation. In addition, a data privacy
waiver will have to be completed. For additional informa-
tion, instructions and sample code please see the Github:
https://github.com/MUVIM/FallDetection
II. DATASET COLLECTION
A. DESCRIPTION OF THE DATASET
Six vision-based sensors were mounted on the ceiling of a
ﬂoor at the Intelligent Assistive Technology and Systems Lab
(IA TSL), University of Toronto. This study was approved by
the Research Ethics Board at the university. Each participant
provided their written consent to publish their images for
research purposes.
Four camera types were used:
(i) One Hikvision IP network camera is a dome- style
security camera that uses IR illumination. It captures
20 frames per second (fps) video at a resolution of
704× 408 pixels.
FIGURE 1. Start of the fall as indicated by manually produced labels for
each camera.
(ii) A StereoLabs ZED Depth Camera, captures 3D depth
and RGB images.
--- PAGE 6 ---
6 ---
S. Denkovski et al.: Multi Visual Modality Fall Detection Dataset
TABLE 3. Highlighting devices used and the data collected form each.
and speak English, must be able to move around safely in a
furnished room without eyeglasses, must be able to travel and
attend sessions on site. In Phase 2, data was collected from
10 healthy older adults, who are at least 70 years of age (mean
age= 76.4; number of females = 5 (or 50%)). Participants
in Phase 1 were asked to simulate falls onto a 4’’ thick crash
mat. Participants in Phase 2 did not require the use of a crash
mat, since no falls were simulated by this population.
Prior to a session, participants were provided with a con-
sent form detailing the protocol of this study. Once consent
was provided, the researchers conﬁrmed the eligibility of
the participant by conducting a brief screening question-
naire. Two versions of this questionnaire were used, since
the populations for Phase 1 and Phase 2 differed. In Phase 2,
questions pertained to the participants mobility and vision
issues to ensure safety and older adults were asked if they
have experienced a fall within the last year to help ensure they
do not have any mobility issues.
Each session was approximately one (1) hour in length,
including consent, preparation time, data collection, and
intermissions to change the setting of the room. The setting
of the room (including furniture and the crash mat) was
randomized for each participant based on ﬁve (5) pre-made
arrangements. The furniture and crash mat were stationary
throughout each session, but were moved to a new conﬁgu-
ration between participant sessions. This was done to avoid
building a trivial classiﬁer to detect the crash mat as the cue
for a fall in a scene. These ﬁve room settings were created
in order to include as many props and furniture within the
ﬁeld of view of all modalities. An example layout of the lab
is presented in Figure 2.
Each session contained ten (10) trials, ﬁve ‘‘day-time’’
trials that were well lit and ﬁve ‘‘night-time’’ trials with poor
lighting. Blackout curtains and main overhead lights were
turned off in night-time trials but an incandescent lamp was
still left on in order to provide enough illumination to allow
participants to move around safely. Each trial required the
participant to act out a scripted ‘‘story’’, while interacting
with various furniture and props in the scene. For example,
one story involves the participant returning home from an
outing, putting down his or her bags, taking off his or her
shoes and jacket, making tea, and sitting down at a computer.
The format of each story was intended to put participants at
ease and increase the realism of the data that was collected.
The collection of stories used in this study covered a broad
range of normal activities that might occur in a younger/older
adult’s living room. In addition, the stories allowed the partic-
ipants to move around the room as they interact with the furni-
ture and props placed
--- PAGE 7 ---
7 ---
S. Denkovski et al.: Multi Visual Modality Fall Detection Dataset
FIGURE 2. One example of the arrangements of five furniture pieces in
room. Furniture pieces are as follows; black - mat; brown - shelf; olive -
chair; grey - desk + chair; blue - table; red - sofa + end table; purple -
lamp.
Five general representative fall types of older adults were
selected
• Tripping or stumbling forward, and falling when
unable to catch oneself.
• Standing or walking, losing one’s balance, and
falling backwards or sideways. Note that a back-
ward fall ends in a sitting or a lying position.
• Falling slowly/incrementally. (Person loses bal-
ance, catches self on some object, but continues to
fall slowly when they don’t have the strength to
recover.)
• Attempting to sit, but falling when the chair slides
out from underneath.
• Attempting to stand, putting weight on a chair, table
or walker, but the supporting object moves away
and fails to provide support.
• Sitting in a chair, leaning forward to reach an item
on the ﬂoor, putting on shoes, or attempting other
activities, and toppling out of the chair.
out normal activities based on the given cues and each session
would end with a fall on the crash mat. The types of fall were
kept diverse across each session and for different persons to
capture different types of falls. Each story was assigned one or
more fall types and recovery methods that could logically ﬁt
at the end of the story. If multiple fall types were possible for
that story, one was determined at random. A higher number
of normal activities relative to fall events were deliberately
performed to represent actual scenarios. A disproportionately
high number of falls may over-simplify or bias the predictive
models. In summary, a trial consisted of: enacting a story;
simulating a fall; and engaging in a recovery, all of which
were chosen randomly from a pre-deﬁned script.
Participants in Phase 2 were also asked to complete ten
stories but were not tasked with simulating a fall or a
recovery.
Participants were prompted through the steps of each trial.
However, these prompts were not given with speciﬁc details
to allow the participant to complete the assigned tasks based
on their own interpretation. This would help in building
FIGURE 3. Directory tree used to store trials and cameras. FD001 is the
folder for participant 1, containing all cameras. Each camera has its own
folder, containing 10 sub-folders for each trial done (labeled day or night).
The FLIR thermal camera contains three additional folders for each three
thermal cameras used. (Note: 278, 279 and 280 are generated labels.)
generalized classiﬁers and not based on a particular sequence
of activities.
The Empatica E4 wristband was turned on at the beginning
of the session. Trials were deﬁned through the pressing of
the main button by the participant at the beginning and end
of each trial. The Astra Pro, FLIR ONE, ZED, and IP cam-
eras were manually controlled by the researchers. Recordings
w
--- PAGE 8 ---
8 ---
S. Denkovski et al.: Multi Visual Modality Fall Detection Dataset
The types of falls that were observed are listed below. Certain
trials also contained more than one fall. In this case, both falls
were documented in the spreadsheet.
3) LIMITATIONS
This dataset was created with the intention of an anomaly
detection framework for fall detection. As such, only fall
activities are labeled. The advantage of anomaly detection
framework is that it can detect not-normal activities. There-
fore, in a real-world system, this type of system can detect
other anomalous or risky behaviours, exhibited by a person,
including agitation, aggression, seizure, and wandering.
One major limitation involved the positioning of the FLIR
cameras. The cameras were often not able to capture the com-
plete duration of the fall clearly. For example, when the start
of fall was unclear in the footage, the ﬁrst visible frame was
used instead. If the end of fall was clearly visible, it was still
recorded in the main label table. This led to the incomplete
labelling of falls for certain trials. Another limitation was that
recording software for some modalities would freeze during
the trial, particularly with the thermal and Orbbec cameras,
and thus were unable to capture the fall. However, this did
not happen often and was not a major issue, with all missing
videos noted in the Appendix. For any trial that was missing
the start or end of fall frames, the researcher made a note
but did not record the frame into the data sheet. A further
limitation appeared due to the lack of detail produced by
recordings from the FLIR cameras. Its low resolution video
made it difﬁcult to observe the exact start and end frames for
certain falls. Speciﬁcally, we observed that when participants
remained in one position for a long time, they left a heat
residue, and thus made it difﬁcult to differentiate between the
residue and the participant who had fallen.
III. FALL DETECTION
To compare the performance between cameras, a baseline
modality performance was required. This would allow for the
comparison between camera modalities on the MUVIM fall
detection dataset.
Fall detection was approached as a one-class classiﬁ-
cation problem or anomaly detection owing to the rarity
of fall events [37]. Previous work has established that 3D
CNN auto-encoders can achieve high performance by learn-
ing spatial and temporal features [38]. In this approach,
a spatio-temporal autoencoder is trained only on video clips
of normal activities that are available in abundance. During
testing, the autoencoder should be able to reconstruct unseen
normal activities with low reconstruction error. However,
this autoencoder will reconstruct unseen falls with a higher
reconstruction error. Thus, using 3D autoencoder, a fall
can be effectively detected as an anomaly. We adapted the
DeepFall [38] model and re-implemented it in PyTorch. The
performance of this methodology on other datasets and in
comparison to other anomaly det
--- PAGE 9 ---
9 ---
S. Denkovski et al.: Multi Visual Modality Fall Detection Dataset
FIGURE 4. 3D autoencoder structure.
TABLE 4. Cross-context results when averaging performance on a per
video basis. Where (σ ) is using the mean reconstruction error and (µ) is
using the standard deviation of reconstruction error for each frame across
all videos it appears in. Shaded regions represent the reconstruction error
that achieved the highest AUC ROC for a given modality.
TABLE 5. Cross-context results when using a global receiving operating
characteristic curve across all videos. Shaded regions represent the
reconstruction error that achieved the highest AUC ROC for a given
modality.
a person and their speciﬁc activities. Alternatively, all recon-
struction scores can be concatenated together, after which one
AUC ROC can be found across all videos (global). Global
threshold results are reported in Table 5. This method may
show a more generalizable level of performance.
Secondly, a within-context anomaly score can be gen-
erated. This operates on a per-window basis, where mean
reconstruction error of each sliding window is used. However,
in order to determine a window’s label a hyper-parameter on
the number of falls must be set. For example, if a window
contains eight frames, the hyper-parameter may be set to four,
so that at least four frames of the eight must contain a fall for
the window be classiﬁed as a fall. As such reporting for all
within-context results is for all possible parameters given a
window size of eight. The results are presented in Figure 7.
TABLE 6. Cross-context precision-recall results for a global threshold
across all videos.
IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
To evaluate the performance of our model at detecting anoma-
lies as falls, the Area Under Curve (AUC) of Receiver Oper-
ating Characteristics (ROC) and Precision-Recall (PR) curve
was used. We observed good performance across all modal-
ities. Mean performance for each modality cross-contexts is
reported in Table 4. The best performance is seen by the IP
infra-red camera, achieving an average AUC ROC(σ) of 0.95
(0.049) using cross-context mean reconstruction error. Per-
formance was comparable between mean reconstruction error
and standard deviation of reconstruction error; however most
modalities performed slightly better using the standard error
of reconstruction. Precision-recall performance is relative to
the ratio of true positives in the dataset divided by the number
of samples. Our dataset contained roughly 885 falls frames
from a total of 92,709 frames for each modality. This means
that the baseline of a random classiﬁer would achieve an AUC
PR of 0.0096. Best AUC PR performance was seen with the IP
modality, achieving an AUC PR(σ ) of 0.261(0.280) standard
deviation.
Instead of averaging performance across all videos, recon-
struction error from each video camera is concatenated into
a single vector; AUC ROC and PR can then be calcu-
lated. Table 5 presents the results. We observe a dec
--- PAGE 10 ---
10 ---
S. Denkovski et al.: Multi Visual Modality Fall Detection Dataset
FIGURE 5. Within-context versus cross-context scoring methods.
(A) Within-context reconstruction scoring method. In this example, for
illustration purposes three frames out of five must contain a fall for the
window to be considered a fall. Reconstruction error is averaged across
each window. (B) Cross-context reconstruction scoring method.
Reconstruction error for a frame is averaged across all windows
containing the frame.
camera sill achieving an AUC ROC (σ ) of 0.913 (down
from 0.937(0.051). However, weaker modalities saw a larger
decrease, speciﬁcally with the RGB camera decreasing from
an AUC ROC (σ ) of 0.828(0.123) to 0.657. When using
global thresholding, a large decrease in the AUC PR perfor-
mance is also seen. The best AUC PR performance decreased
from the IP camera’s AUC PR (µ) of 0.261(0.280) to 0.076.
However, since the baseline for AUC PR is 0.0096 (due to the
large class imbalance) performance is still better than a ran-
dom classiﬁer. This decrease in AUC PR is most likely caused
FIGURE 6. Mean within-context AUC ROC scores for various number of
frames that contain a fall in order for the window to be considered to
contain a fall.
FIGURE 7. Mean within-context AUC PR scores for various number of
frames that contain a fall in order for the window to be considered to
contain a fall.
by an optimal threshold for reconstruction error that cannot
be found on a per video, but instead could be generalizable
across all videos.
The within-context results using mean reconstruction error
are shown in Figure 6. Similar performance was achieved
with a within-context context scoring method. Performance
increases as the number of falls in a window required to
classify it a fall window increases, peaking at ﬁve and then
beginning to slightly decrease. However, the precision-recall
performance is best at a lower number. As a larger number
of frames are required to classify a window as containing a
fall, the fewer number of windows are considered to have
a fall. Thus, the ratio of true positive labels to total labels
will decrease. As baseline performance is too small to show
clearly on the graph it is reported in Table 6.
IR was the best performing modality (see Table 4 with the
IP camera achieving AUC ROC (σ ) scores of 0.950(0.049)
AUC ROC (µ) scores of 0.937(0.077) and the Orbbec camera
achieving AUC ROC (σ ) 0.923(0.085) and AUC ROC (µ)
0.927(0.077). IR cameras beneﬁt from high visual clarity
VOLUME 10, 2022 106431

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 ---
S. Denkovski et al.: Multi Visual Modality Fall Detection Dataset
while also being able perform well in a range of lighting
conditions. This creates a low amount of a noise within the
image and less challenging conditions for an autoencoder
to reconstruct. These factors can help improve the perfor-
mance of the classiﬁer. We also see a negligible difference
between the IP camera and Orbbec IR camera’s indicating
that achieved performance is due to modality differences
rather than camera variables such as recording frame rate or
ﬁeld of view.
Thermal video also performed very well achieving an
AUC ROC (σ ) of 0.874(0.112) and an AUC ROC (µ) of
0.883(0.088) (see Table 4). This was despite the lower frame
and narrower frame of view. This modality tends to obscure
facial features, details in the background and create a silhou-
ette of participants. This creates a strong separation between
an individual and their surroundings. However, when an
individual leaves or enters the frame the gradient in the
image changes to represent the hottest and coldest parts of
an image. This may have resulted in decreased performance
due to increased variability between scenes and as a par-
ticipants enter and leave frames. Additionally, this modal-
ity did include interpolated frames in order to increase fps
from 4 to 8.
The ZED Depth camera achieved AUC ROC(µ)
0.894(0.119). The Orbbec Depth camera achieved 0.839
(0.133) and an AUC ROC(µ) of 0.872(0.115). Performance
decreased for the depth modality with the use of a global
threshold as compared to a per-video basis with an AUC
ROC(µ) of 0.843 and 0.831 for the ZED and Orbbec cam-
eras respectively. This may be due to depth cameras often
having depth errors at an objects edges/corners, requiring in-
painting. Despite in-painting improving performance, it is an
estimation of missing values and thus introduces additional
noise into the image.
The RGB camera had the worst performance amongst
all datasets with an AUC ROC (σ ) of 0.859(0.125) and an
AUC ROC (µ) of 0.828(0.123). The ﬁeld of view, cam-
era placement, and image quality were similar to those
of other datasets. V aried lighting conditions both within a
single image and across videos may have greatly affected
performance.
The performance from models on this dataset are very
encouraging; however, the dataset is collected in a semi-
naturalistic setting. We would validate the algorithms in a
community setting (or domestic monitoring) in a future study
to understand the acceptability and the unique challenges
faced in deployment. The current models work for one or
two people, in a controlled setting. Deployment in care homes
require a higher level of consideration due to the presence of
other residents and staff.
As we approached one-class classiﬁcation through mea-
suring reconstruction error, having a lower amount of noise
can help isolate reconstruction error due to fall activities.
However, strong performance is still observed across vari-
ous modalities
