
--- PAGE 1 ---
Human Fall Detection in Surveillance Videos
Simran Jain
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirappalli
Tiruchirappalli, India
simran2jain1995@gmail.com
K. Sitara
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirappalli
Tiruchirappalli, India
sitara@nitt.edu
Abstract—The development of healthy aging and the assistance
of older people in their everyday activities is one of the most
pressing concerns in modern cultures. Human fall is such an
irregular action that occurs when a person gets startled and loses
their equilibrium, resulting in sliding. These accidents among
old people can result in long-term impairments and even death.
Automated detection of falls has gotten a lot of interest in
computer vision and pattern recognition areas because of its
social and economic implications. Although wearable sensor-
based techniques have achieved excellent detection rates, some
potential users are hesitant to wear them, and so their usage
has not yet become standard. As a result, new ways have arisen,
such as vision-based solutions. Fall detection that is accurate
for the help of older persons is critical in reducing the number
of fatalities and injuries caused by falls. The inﬂuence of deep
learning on vision-based systems, such as action recognition, has
transformed the landscape. The emergence of Smart Environ-
ments and Internet of Things concepts, together with the growing
number of cameras in our everyday lives, creates an ideal setting
for vision-based solutions. As a result, this paper aims to provide
a vision-based method that uses Convolutional Neural Networks
to determine if a series of frames involves a fall event or not.
The proposed approach is using Histogram of Oriented Gradient
(HOG) features extracted from series of frame to determine the
fall event.
Index Terms—Deep Learning, Computer Vision, Histogram of
Oriented Gradient,Pattern Recognition.
I. I NTRODUCTION
The population is aging at a quicker rate than ever before.
According to the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)
(UNFPA, 2012), by 2050, the worldwide population of adults
aged 60 and up would reach 2 billion. Currently, health related
problems have targeted a large percentage of older population.
Many people are facing problems in living because of these
challenges, which are compounded by the normal decrease
in physical and cognitive abilities of the aged. Due to the
physical weakness associated with aging, fall occurs frequently
among old people, and it has bad impact on their health by
making them prone to injury resulting in health issues. In HMS
(Health Monitoring Systems), rapid and accurate fall detection
is critical for providing appropriate services and medical
assistance [1]. Thus, human fall is an alarming event which
must be monitored. Surveillance video cameras give crucial
information for watching people’s behaviour throughout the
fall event. Various approaches employing modern technologies
such as wearable sensors, accelerometers, gyroscopes, mag-
netometers, and so on have been presented in recent years
to determine the correct fall. However, wearing a device for
an extended period of time is impractical for the elderly,
this is not an effective option. As a result, it is critical to
implant a penetrating monitoring system for elderly citizens
that can identify fall behaviours within the room promptly and
automatically which alerts caregivers to the situation. For this
purpose, a sensor-based alarm production system is needed to
be installed in the living room. In such scenario, as vision
based system can be used for health mentoring setup.
The core objective of this paper is to devise a vision-based
solution for the detection of human falls by making use of
a sequence of image frames in the streaming surveillance
videos. It aims to develop a comparatively faster and more
accurate solution whose usage can be encouraged in real-life
scenarios for the betterment of elderly people. The rest of this
paper consists of following sections, Section II discusses the
literature review for fall detection problem. Section III puts
forward the proposed Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG)
[13][17] based solution. Section IV discusses and compares
the results produced by proposed model and optical ﬂow [16]
based model presented in base paper [2]. Section V consists
of conclusion and future work.
II. L ITERATURE REVIEW
Typical fall detection techniques which have been used in
this ﬁeld are sensor based and vision based. Sensor-based
detection has traditionally relied on accelerometers, which
offer accurate acceleration measurements such as vertical
acceleration. These measurements are extremely distinct from
daily activities in the case of falls, allowing us to distinguish
between them. Vision based techniques rely on human motion
captured in video sequences and distinguish activities using
feature based classiﬁcation.
A. Sensor Based
Rungnapakan and Chintakovid [9] proposed a fall detection
technique making use of accelerometer and gyroscope sensors
installed in user smartphone. This approach is based on the
change in acceleration and orientation to detect fall events.
Whenever there will be abrupt change and threshold breach in
the sensor values fall event can be detected. The disadvantage
of sensor-based approach is that there may be false alarms
caused due to non-fall events such as accidental dropping of
2022 3rd International Conference for Emerging Technology (INCET) 
Belgaum, India. May 27-29, 2022
978-1-6654-9499-1/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE 1
2022 3rd International Conference for Emerging Technology (INCET) | 978-1-6654-9499-1/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/INCET54531.2022.9824941

--- PAGE 2 ---
mobile phone. User may not have mobile phone with him/her
all the time, so some injurious fall may not be detected.
Yuxi Wang, Kaishun Wu and Zhong Zhang, Christopher
[10] [11] devised fall detection techniques without using any
handheld or wearable sensors by installing the tracking system
in the surrounding of people. Such techniques have eliminated
the need for wearable or handheld sensors for which people
may be reluctant to wear or carry but such technology cannot
be used on the go and is limited to some speciﬁc arena.
B. Vision Based
Sagar Chhetri, Abeer Alsadoon and N ´u˜nez-Marcos, Azkune
[2] [3] had developed a technique for fall detection using the
optical ﬂow in image frames of video sequences. The optical
ﬂow features were extracted and were reﬁned using a deep
convolutional neural network. The ﬁnally extracted features
were passed to classiﬁer layers composed of a fully connected
followed by a softmax layer. This approach concluded the fall
detection with accuracy of 93%. The main challenged posed by
this approach is very high processing power and time required
for generating optical ﬂow features on images.
Kun Wang, Guitao Cao [4] had devised a vision-based
fall detection technique by combining computer vision-based
features, namely, Histograms of Oriented Gradients (HOG),
Local Binary Pattern (LBP) and a feature extracted by the
Deep Learning Framework Caffe to form a combination a
feature set. Each image frame was pre-processed to extract
these features and combination feature vector is generated on
each frame. Classiﬁcation is done on each frame using SVM
classiﬁer, thus it worked as a single frame classiﬁcation model.
This work has reported the sensitivity of 92% and speciﬁcity of
89%. This approach is facing challenges because of its single
frame classiﬁcation nature instead of working on a sequence
of frames, which led to compromised accuracy of the model.
F. Harrou, N. Zerrouki [5] used tracking techniques in a
near area to detect falls. Authors proposed a methodology
for computing a person’s silhouette and extracting information
such as the spatial orientation of the silhouette’s centre orbits
a geometric orientation using labelling of connected compo-
nents.
The use of 3D vision to take advantage of 3D structures
is another area of visionbased fall detection systems. This
technique necessitates the use of many cameras (passive
systems) or active depth cameras, such as the Microsoft Kinect
or time-ofﬂight cameras, to derive depth maps. Because of
its inexpensive price and outstanding performance, the Kinect
camera is extremely popular. Auvinet et al. [6] employed a
Kinect camera to create a 3D silhouette, which was then used
to examine the volume distribution along the vertical axis.
Gasparrini et al. [7] utilised a similar camera to extract 3D
data before using a tracking system to identify falls. Kinect
software offers body joints, which Planinc and Kampel [8]
utilised to determine the main axes’ orientation based on their
location. The disadvantages of such methods are connected to
system deployment: they require either several synchronized
cameras focused on the same region or active depth cameras
with small ﬁelds of vision and limited depth.
Vision-based solutions are preferred because surveillance
video cameras are prominent these days but they require
high processing power. The sensor-based solutions have the
disadvantage of giving confounding results due to the changed
orientation of sensors while activity detection, therefore a ﬁxed
reference of orientation has to be maintained while activity
detection. Also, users may be reluctant to wear or hold sensors,
which puts a limit on senor-based solutions. In the purposed
work, a vision-based solution will be developed.
III. T HE PROPOSED APPROACH
A. Overview
In the proposed approach, there are mainly two components
which work on a sequence of frames extracted from videos:
feature extractor and classiﬁer. The output of the classiﬁer
will result in probability of fall/non-fall class. All the steps
are brieﬂy described in following text.
a) Reading Input Video: The sample video is read frame
by frame, videos can be either MP4 or A VI. The RGB frames
extracted from the videos will have 3 channels
b) Frame Extraction and Pre-processing: Each RGB
frame will be read in sequence and pre-processing of each
frame will be done. The frames will be resized to a uniform
shape of 224x224, because it is the minimum possible size
up to which image dimensions can be reduced without losing
image statistics [12]. Pre-feature extraction is performed using
histogram of oriented gradients (HOG) feature descriptor used
in computer vision and image processing. Finally, the image
sequence will be divided into image stacks.
c) Feature Extractor: Each image stack of size 20 will be
fed to feature extractor network for reﬁning frame features and
extract ﬁnal features based on the change/motion in the image,
such as required action can be recognized. Feature extractor
will be a deep convolutional neural network architecture, so
that it can extract a good amount of image features.
d) Feature Classiﬁer: Feature classiﬁer will receive the
feature vector obtained as the output of previous step. The
classiﬁcation network will detect if the sequence of frames in a
stack involved a fall event or not by delineating the probability
of each class, namely, a fall and non-fall. The class that has
higher probability will be taken ﬁnal output of the model.
B. Methodology
The methodology used in the proposed solution is mainly
based on Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG) features
of frame sequences. This method is also compared with
existing Optical Flow based features[2][3]. HOG features are
popularly used in computer vision based techniques which are
widely used in the ﬁeld of object detection. In this work, this
technique is ﬁrst time applied to the series of frame to detect
the motion and consequently extract features which are useful
for Human activity recognition in contrast to existing work
where Histogram of Oriented Gradient (HOG) is used in single
frame-based classiﬁcation model along with Local Binary
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
Pattern (LBP) [4]. Histogram of Oriented Gradient (HOG)
features have been chosen because of their ability to detect
change in orientation and direction in the consecutive image
frames. Also, HOG feature extraction is simpler as compared
to optical ﬂow feature extraction [2][3] while ensuring good
accuracy. HOG features focus on change in orientation and
gradient in the series of frames to detect motion. The change in
the consecutive RGB frames during a sample fall sequence and
their corresponding HOG frames are shown in “Fig. 1”. In the
proposed method ﬁrstly computer vision based algorithms are
applied on the sequence of frames. These algorithms consist of
resizing the image frames to uniform size, RGB to grayscale
conversion of image and histogram of oriented gradients
feature extraction. After performing these pre-processing steps
on the series of frames deep learning based algorithms are
used for feature and extraction and ﬁnal classiﬁcation of image
sequences into fall/non-fall categories. This paper purposes a
computer vision based solution for fall detection. The model
design represented in “Fig. 2” is described in detail in the
following text.
a) Reading Model Input: All the videos in datasets were
downloaded in a repository. Each video is converted into
frames using functions provided in OpenCV . Each frame is
then resized to 224x224 and then gray-scaled. The series of
frames in each video is then read stack by stack with the
stack size of 20 and a sliding window of size 1. Each stack
will act as a single instance of model input, that is, input of
size 224x224x20.
b) Pre-processing of Input Frame stack: Before passing
the input to the neural network model, the histogram of ori-
ented gradient is generated on each frame to perform another
level of pre-processing. It will highlight the shape of the object
in the image, remove unwanted information from the frame. In
the base paper model [2] the optical ﬂow features are extracted
at this stage instead of the histogram of oriented gradients.
Optical Flow requires high processing as compared to the
histogram of oriented gradients since optical ﬂow calculation
involves all the 3 channels of the frame, RGB(Red, Green
and Blue) for the computation whereas histogram of oriented
gradients can be calculated using a single grayscale channel
only. Now the input is ready to be passed through the neural
network layers for feature extraction and classiﬁcation.
c) Feature Extractor: Now the video sequences will be
passed through the feature extractor to reﬁne the features. For
the purpose of feature extractor, generic VGG-16 [12] deep
convolutional neural network architecture is used because has
shown promising results with other human activity recognition
datasets. Multiple convolution layers with different number of
ﬁlters (64, 128 and 512) have been used. Each ﬁlter has a size
of 3x3. The layers are arranged in the increasing order of ﬁlter
size and max pool layers in between are helping in reducing
dimensions of input when the input image is going through a
set of convolutional layers. Detailed feature extractor is shown
in “Table I” and is summarized in the following text.
• Input: It is a stack of HOG images of size 224x224.
• Output: It is a feature vector of size 4096.
TABLE I: Feature Extractor
Neural Network Layer Output Size
Convolution(ﬁlters=64,kernel size=3x3) 224x224x64
Convolution(ﬁlters=64,kernel size=3x3) 224x224x64
Maxpool(pooling size=2x2) 112x112x64
Convolution(ﬁlters=128,kernel size=3x3) 112x112x128
Convolution(ﬁlters=128,kernel size=3x3) 112x112x128
Maxpool(pooling size=2x2) 56x56x64
Convolution(ﬁlters=256,kernel size=3x3) 56x56x256
Convolution(ﬁlters=256,kernel size=3x3) 56x56x256
Convolution(ﬁlters=256,kernel size=3x3) 56x56x256
Maxpool(pooling size=2x2) 28x28x256
Convolution(ﬁlters=512,kernel size=3x3) 28x28x512
Convolution(ﬁlters=512,kernel size=3x3) 28x28x512
Convolution(ﬁlters=512,kernel size=3x3) 28x28x512
Maxpool(pooling size=2x2) 14x14x512
Convolution(ﬁlters=512,kernel size=3x3) 14x14x512
Convolution(ﬁlters=512,kernel size=3x3) 14x14x512
Convolution(ﬁlters=512,kernel size=3x3) 14x14x512
Maxpool(pooling size=2x2) 7x7x512
Flatten 25088
Dense(to=4086) 4086
• Choice of the number of ﬁlters: The number of ﬁlters
in each layer will be the same as the VGG-16 network
because of its accuracy with other activity recognition
datasets.
• Choice of ﬁlter size: It will be 3x3, which is the minimum
possible ﬁlter size to recognize motion in all 4 directions.
• Choice of max-pool size: It will be 2x2, which is the min-
imum possible size to reduce dimensions with minimum
loss.
d) Feature Classiﬁcation: The feature vector of size
4096 is obtained for each frame. Each instance will contain
stack of 20 feature vectors of consecutive frames, then passed
through fully-connected and softmax layers to get the classi-
ﬁcation probability for each class.
• First Phase (Model Training): In the ﬁrst phase, all the
feature vectors corresponding to each training video will
be used to ﬁt the classiﬁer model along with the ground
truth, fall or non-fall video.In this way, the model will
learn the features corresponding to both the events. Since
ground truth is provided to the model during training, it
is a supervised learning algorithm.
• Second Phase (Model testing): Once the model is trained,
test samples can be passed to the classiﬁer. The sample
will be classiﬁed by the model into fall and non-fall
categories. The output layer in the model will be soft-
max activation which outputs the probability with which
sample belongs to the non-fall category. Say the output
of the model is P, then
1) Probability of non-fall event (P1) = P
2) Probability of fall event (P2) = 1-P
If P 2 >P 1 or P< 0.5, the sample will be classiﬁed as
fall else the sample will be classiﬁed as a non-fall event.
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
(a)
(b)
Fig. 1: Consecutive (a) RGB and (b) HOG frames (left to right) displaying a person tending to fall
Fig. 2: The model takes video as input, extract raw RGB frames from video and then extract HOG features for each frame
in sequence. These pre-processed frames are passed to deep neural network feature extractor and stacked in the size of 20 for
performing ﬁnal classiﬁcation. Each stack of 20 frames along with their extracted features will result in a fall or non-fall class.
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
C. Dataset
In this work two publicly used datasets are used, namely,
UR Fall Detection Dataset and Multiple Cameras Fall Dataset.
The description of these two datasets is as follows:
• UR Fall Detection Dataset [14]: This dataset has total 70
videos comprising of 30 video sequences of fall and 40
video sequences of activities of daily life (non-fall). The
frame size of each frame in video is 224x224. All the
fall videos are captured in the same room but changing
background in terms of placement of objects in video
frames. All the non-fall videos are captured in 5 different
rooms thus different backgrounds. Different persons are
involved in capturing fall and non-fall samples. Along
with RGB video sequences, depth information of the
video sequences is also available. All the videos are
available in MP4 downloadable format.
• Multiple Cameras Dataset[15]: This dataset contains total
22 fall videos having 22 fall scenarios and 2 non-fall
videos having 20 scenarios captured using 8 IP cameras.
The frame size of each frame in video is 480x480. The
falls are captured from different angles in the room. All
the falls in this dataset are captured in same but recorded
from different angles. Various scenarios are captured such
as falling from front, back and sideways. Falls in this
dataset are useful in training the model for different fall
scenarios in terms of fall postures and orientation. All the
videos are available in A VI format and zipped in a single
downloadable zip ﬁle.
Total fall scenarios: 22x8 = 178
Total non-fall scenarios: 20x8 = 160
a) Experimental Setup: The project work was simulated
using google colab python 3.7 notebook along with GPU.
GPU is used for training and testing of proposed models
because of high processing power required for processing
images and feature extraction, classiﬁcation using deep neural
network. The GPU has accelerated the processing thus helped
in generating the results faster. The system conﬁguration of an
online google colab platform on which experiments are done
has been listed in “Table II”.
TABLE II: System Conﬁguration
Type Conﬁguration
Processor Intel Xenon
Speed 2.3 GHz
RAM Size 13 GB
Number of Processors 2
GPU size K80
GPU Memory 12 GB
Conﬁguration 64 bit
IV . RESULTS
a) Input Pre-processing Results: In the proposed model
after frame extraction, the pre-processing involves resizing of
the frame to uniform size of 224x224. The image is then
converted to grayscale since HOG features can be extracted
from just one gray-scaled channel. HOG extraction algorithm
is applied to the gray-scaled frame. The various stages of frame
are shown in “Fig. 3”.
(a)
 (b)
 (c)
Fig. 3: Raw RGB frame extracted from video is shown in
(a). It has 3 channels but for simplicity these 3 channels can
be merged to 1 channel before processing the frame further.
Therefore, RGB frame is converted to Grayscale frame which
is shown in (b). The Grayscale frame has to be processed
to obtained HOG frame. The HOG frame obtained from
Grayscale frame is shown in (c). HOG frame will be the ﬁnal
result of pre-processing which will be passed to next stages
of the model.
b) Model Testing Results: The proposed model and
model presented in the base paper[2] are implemented and
compared based on sensitivity, speciﬁcity, and accuracy met-
rics for UR Fall dataset [14] and Multiple cameras dataset
[15]. The results obtained for these two datasets are shown in
“Table III”. Deﬁnition of each of the metric used for evaluating
the model is given below:
• Sensitivity: (Number of true positive assess-
ment)/(Number of all positive assessment)
• Speciﬁcity: (Number of true negative assess-
ment)/(Number of all negative assessment)
• Accuracy: (Number of correct assessments)/(Number of
all assessments)
TABLE III: Model Performance
UR Fall Dataset Multiple Cameras Dataset
Metric HOG model Optical Flow Model [2] HOG model Optical Flow Model [2]
Sensitivity 100% 100% 94.5% 94.5%
Speciﬁcity 87.5% 87.5% 90.9% 90.6%
Accuracy 92.8% 92.8% 97.4% 96.1%
Classiﬁcation details on test datasets using random split of
80:20 is presented in “Table IV”. From the results, it can be
TABLE IV: Classiﬁcation Results
UR Fall Dataset Multiple Cameras Dataset
HOG model Optical Flow model [2] HOG model Optical Flow model [2]
Total scenarios 14 14 77 77
Fall scenarios 6 6 36 36
Non-fall scenarios 8 8 31 31
True positives 6 6 35 35
True negatives 7 7 30 29
False positives 1 1 1 2
False negatives 0 0 1 1
seen that both HOG model and Optical ﬂow based model have
shown similar results for UR Fall dataset, both have shown
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
accuracy of 92.8%. Whereas for Multiple Cameras dataset
HOG model has outperformed Optical Flow model. With this
dataset HOG model has shown the accuracy of 97.4% but
optical ﬂow model has shown accuracy of 96.1%. HOG model
has outperformed in the cases of varying brightness across
the different sections of image frame. Because of applying
normalization across localized gradients during HOG feature
extraction, it has neutralized the impact of varying brightness.
V. C ONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
A new system for vision-based fall detection has been
designed and implemented. The proposed system is based on
Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG) features in a series
of frames in videos. This system has been compared against
the existing vision-based solution for fall detection, which is
based on capturing optical ﬂow in video frames. HOG based
solution can be encouraged over optical ﬂow based solution
because HOG feature computations are relatively simple, and
require less processing power while ensuring good accuracy
for fall detection.
The proposed model can be improved further by including
depth information, since it will help to eliminate the false
cases. Also, this system of fall detection can be extended
further to other applications such as injury detection after the
fall by doing processing of pre and post fall scenario frames.
REFERENCES
[1] Haider Mshali, Tayeb Lemlouma, Maria Moloney, Damien Magoni,
(2018)“A survey on health monitoring systems for health smart homes.”
International Journal of Industrial Ergonomics, V olume 66, 2018, Pages
26-56
[2] N ´u˜nez-Marcos, A., Azkune, G., and Arganda-Carreras, I.
(2017).“Vision-Based Fall Detection with Convolutional
NeuralNetworks”. Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing,
2017.
[3] Sagar Chhetri, Abeer Alsadoon, Thair Al-Dala’in, P. W. C. Prasad,
Tarik A. Rashid, Angelika Maag (2020).“Deep learning for vision-based
fall detection system: Enhanced optical dynamic ﬂow” Computational
Intelligence.
[4] Kun Wang, Guitao Cao, Dan Meng, Weiting Chen and Wenming Cao,
(2016) “Automatic fall detection of human in video using combination
of features”, 2016 IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and
Biomedicine (BIBM), 2016, pp. 1228- 1233.
[5] F. Harrou, N. Zerrouki, Y . Sun, and A. Houacine,(2016) “Statistical
control chart and neural network classiﬁcation for improving human
fall detection,” in Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on
Modelling, Identiﬁcation and Control, ICMIC 2016, pp. 1060–1064,
Algeria.
[6] E. Auvinet, F. Multon, A. Saint-Arnaud, J. Rousseau, and J. Meunier,
“Fall detection with multiple cameras: An occlusion resistant method
based on 3-D silhouette vertical distribution,” IEEE Transactions on
Information Technology in Biomedicine, vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 290–300,
2011.
[7] S. Gasparrini, E. Cippitelli, S. Spinsante, and E. Gambi,(2013) “A depth-
based fall detection system using a Kinect sensor,” Sensors, vol. 14, no.
2, pp. 2756–2775, 2014.
[8] R. Planinc and M. Kampel,(2016) “Introducing the use of depth data
for fall detection,” Personal and Ubiquitous Computing, vol. 17, no. 6,
pp. 1063–1072.
[9] T. Rungnapakan, T.Chintakovid,(2018) “Fall Detection Using Ac-
celerometer, Gyroscope and Impact Force Calculation on Android
Smartphones,” CHIuXiD 2018: Proceedings of the 4th International
Conference on Human-Computer Interaction and User Experience in
Indonesia, CHIuXiD 2018,March 2018, Pages 49–53
[10] Yuxi Wang, Kaishun Wu, and Lionel M. Ni. (2017) “WiFall: device-
free fall detection by wireless networks.”IEEE Transactions on Mobile
Computing 16, 2: 581- 594.
[11] Zhong Zhang, Christopher Conly, and Vassilis Athitsos,(2015) “A sur-
vey on vision-based fall detection.” In Proceedings of the 8th ACM
International Conference on PErvasive Technologies Related to Assistive
Environments (PETRA’15).
[12] K. Simonyan and A. Zisserman, (2015) “Very deep convolutional
networks” In ICLR Conference, 2015. for large-scale image recognition,
2014.
[13] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Histogram of oriented gradients
[14] http://fenix.univ.rzeszow.pl/ ∼mkepski/ds/uf.html
[15] http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/ ∼labimage/Dataset/
[16] D. Sun, S. Roth and M. J. Black, “Secrets of optical ﬂow estimation
and their principles,” (2010) IEEE Computer Society Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2010, pp. 2432-2439.
[17] Seemanthini K, Manjunath S.S., “Human Detection and Tracking us-
ing HOG for Action Recognition.”(2018) Procedia Computer Science,
V olume 132, 2018, Pages 1317-1326, ISSN 1877-0509.
6
